{'user': 'Anonymous', 'message': "are you able to summarize an article and quote from it while also treating the source info in accordance with APA7? Source info comes fist, then article: Klansman convicted in ‘Mississippi Burning’ case dies in prison AnneClaire Stapleton By AnneClaire Stapleton, Joe Sterling and Steve Visser, CNN Updated 6:03 AM EST, Sat January 13, 2018 CNN  —  A Klansman found guilty for his role in the 1964 Freedom Summer killings of three civil rights workers has died in prison, according to the Mississippi Department of Corrections. Edgar Ray Killen, a part-time Baptist minister and the plot leader, was convicted of three counts of manslaughter nearly 13 years ago. Edgar Ray Killen was found guilty in 2005 of three counts of manslaughter. Edgar Ray Killen was found guilty in 2005 of three counts of manslaughter. Killen, who would have turned 93 on January 17, was pronounced dead Thursday night at the hospital of the Mississippi State Penitentiary, the department said. The cause and manner of death are pending an autopsy. However, no foul play is suspected, it said. The slayings were among the most notorious of the civil rights era and were the subject of the 1988 movie “Mississippi Burning.” The killings of James Chaney, 21, Andrew Goodman, 20, and Michael Schwerner, 24, helped galvanize the civil rights movement that ushered in major reforms in access to voting, education and public accommodations. Freedom Summer The 1964 FBI bulletin for the missing civil rights students Andrew Goodman, James Chaney and Michael Schwerner. History lost: Mississippi burned again On June 21,1964, the three – all civil rights workers registering African-Americans to vote – were on their way to investigate the burning of a black church in Neshoba County when a sheriff’s deputy took them into custody for speeding. Ad Feedback After their release from the county jail in Philadelphia, a Ku Klux Klan mob tailed their car, forced it off the road and shot them to death. Their bodies were found 44 days later, buried in an earthen dam, after an extensive FBI investigation. Prosecutions sought three years after killings In 1967, prosecutors convicted eight defendants for violating the federal criminal civil rights conspiracy statute, namely the victims’ right to live. None served more than six years in prison. At the time, no federal murder statutes existed, and the state of Mississippi never brought charges. That year in a federal trial, Killen avoided prison when a jury deadlocked 11-1 in favor of his conviction. The lone holdout said she couldn’t convict a preacher. Nearly 40 years later, he was retried after the state reopened the murder investigations. At age 80, he was convicted on June 21, 2005, based on new evidence unveiled in 2000 and was sentenced to three consecutive 20-year sentences. The Mississippi Supreme Court upheld his convictions in 2007. An FBI flyer for missing civil rights students Andrew Goodman, James Chaney and Michael Schwern