{'user': 'Anonymous', 'message': 'Take this story and improve it. Keep the story the same but give describe the surroundings, feelings, and thoughts more meaningfully to paint a picture in a person\'s mind with your words. The origin story of the Duulo-Vraktor bloodline has been passed down for generations. It all started with Mitne, a dragon deity with glossy rainbow scales. He was the guardian of the forest and kept the natural balance. Mitne had long transcended past pride many years before time or history was a concept. For this reason, he regarded everything in the forest as his equal and took his time building meaningful friendships with all life.  Elves, often being a very traditional race, lived in harmony with the forest and their friend. Many generations of elves learned much from Mitne and he cherished the elves\' sincerity and mistakes in their short lives of around 750 years which to him was like the blink of an eye. All they had ever known was peace as far as they could remember.  Those who stumbled onto the forest would be in natural awe of Mitne and those who came with bad intentions had their hearts purified at the sight of him and their souls soothed when he spoke to them. For the first time, those people felt the shadows in their heart lifted, seeing the world with fresh eyes. Finally they could hear nature\'s timeless song: the gentle wind that makes the grass whistle, a drop of dew falling from the leaf of a tree onto a rock and dirt, the dancing leaves and petals as they fell and were swept up again. One sobbing person worked up all his strength to ask Mitne, "I have done much evil for the sake of my own greed and lust. I came to plunder your forest yet your presence lifted all the clouds in me, like I am a newborn again. How have you done this?" Mitne never looked away from the man. He always listened mindfully. The great dragon closed his eyes not to ponder the question for he knew the answer. He just listened to nature\'s timeless song for a moment longer with the man. "Thank you.", said the man. Mitne replied, "I gave you a taste of the essence of true divinity. If there is still some good in one\'s heart then it cleanses all impurities. True evil is very rare. If no goodness is left in a creature, then darkness will attempt to consume the divinity and fail. Darkness promises power and when it\'s overwhelmed by the light, which is the very thing it abandoned for power it will cause the mind to go mad from fear and die. In these cases I cleanse the souls and they enter the cycle of rebirth." The man had just been given insight into the great order and broke down crying. "You have grasped the true weight of your own guilt. Your tears are a testament to your sincerity as you mourn the futures of others that you took. Punishment is not the answer to atonement. Live by finding your own path to divinity." "Where do I start?" "Anywhere. Fill the world with flowers so that others may hear nature\'s timeless song as you have toda