i'm designing a social app about music, movies, books, travel, etc. in short - horizon broadening and cultural heritage exploration. Do you have ideas on how to name it?

Sure, here are some ideas for the name of your social app: I hope one of these suggestions inspires you and helps you find the perfect name for your app!

are there words similar to kaleidoscope? it's taken

Sure, here are some other words that evoke a similar sense of diversity, change, and complexity as "kaleidoscope": I hope these suggestions help!

give some other names

Of course, here are some additional name suggestions for your social app: I hope these additional options are helpful in finding the perfect name for your app.

maybe engage with some latin words that relate to enlightenment or world's knowledge or culture

Certainly, here are some Latin words related to enlightenment, knowledge, and culture that you could incorporate into your app's name: Here are some possible combinations using these words: I hope this helps you come up with a name that incorporates Latin words to reflect your app's mission and values!

other suggestions?

Sure, here are some more suggestions that incorporate Latin words related to culture, knowledge, and exploration: I hope these suggestions help you find the perfect name for your app!

ignore latin part

Sure, here are some more suggestions that don't incorporate Latin words: I hope these suggestions are helpful in finding a name for your social app!

more

Here are some more suggestions for your social app's name: I hope these additional suggestions help you find the perfect name for your app!

do you have some suggestions that are not particularly proper words?

Sure, here are some suggestions for creative names that may not be proper words, but still convey the idea of your social app: I hope these suggestions inspire you and help you find a unique and catchy name for your social app!

great names, but give more

Sure, here are some more suggestions for creative names that are not necessarily proper words: I hope these suggestions help you find the perfect name for your social app!

do you think polysphere is a good name because it comes from polymath and sphere is an ideal geometric shape?