Is there any sample open-source data that can be used in this kind of project: Comparative Analysis of Sentiment on Twitter for Apple vs. Samsung Smartphones.

Yes, there are several open-source data sets available that can be used for sentiment analysis on Twitter related to Apple and Samsung smartphones. Here are a few examples: Twitter Sentiment Corpus: This corpus contains 1.6 million tweets that have been annotated for sentiment polarity (positive, negative, or neutral) and subjectivity. You can filter the tweets by keyword to get tweets related to Apple and Samsung smartphones. Stanford Large Movie Review Dataset: This dataset contains movie reviews from the website IMDB, with each review annotated as either positive or negative. Although this dataset is not specifically related to smartphones, it can still be used to train a sentiment analysis model that can be applied to tweets related to Apple and Samsung smartphones. Kaggle Twitter US Airline Sentiment Dataset: This dataset contains tweets about six US airlines and their sentiment labels (positive, negative, or neutral). Again, this dataset is not specifically related to smartphones, but it can be used to train a sentiment analysis model that can be applied to tweets related to Apple and Samsung smartphones. Tweepy API: The Tweepy API is a Python library for accessing the Twitter API. You can use this library to collect tweets related to Apple and Samsung smartphones, along with their metadata (such as the user who posted the tweet and the time it was posted). Note that it's important to be mindful of ethical considerations when collecting and using data from social media platforms. Make sure to read the terms of service for each data source you use and obtain any necessary permissions before collecting or using data.

Based on above project title, write an outline on how to execute the project. The outline must include the following statement: "To do this you will need to write code, run it on some data, make some figures, collect some references, and write a few pages describing your task, the algorithm(s) you used and the results you obtained.\xa0"

Here\