show me how in the python requests library i can set a specific user-agent

In the Python  requests  library, you can set a specific User-Agent by including it in the headers of your request. Here's an example of how you can do this: In this example, the  headers  dictionary contains a custom User-Agent string that will be sent with the request to the specified  url . Replace the User-Agent string with the one you'd like to use.

create a python function that takes as input a website name without the https part and checks if the certificate of that website is valid, return the number of days before the certificate will expire

To check the SSL certificate validity for a given website, you can use the  ssl  module in Python. Here's a function that takes a website name without the 'https://' part and returns the number of days before the certificate will expire: Replace 'example.com' with the website you'd like to check. The function  get_certificate_expiration_days  will return the number of days before the certificate expires or -1 if there's an error or if it couldn't retrieve the certificate.

ok, now wrap this in a program, a single argument entered will be the website name, but also support -i to read the websites from a file

Here's a program that accepts a single argument for the website name or reads the website names from a file using the  -i  option: Save this code in a file named  ssl_check.py . You can run the program from the command line in the following ways: Replace  example.com  with the website you'd like to check and  websites.txt  with the path to your input file containing the list of websites.

add an commandline option -c to colorize output lines where the certificate is going to expire within 60 days

You can use the  termcolor  library to colorize the output. First, install the library using pip: Now, update the  ssl_check.py  script to include the  -c  or  --colorize  option: With this modification, you can now use the  -c  or  --colorize  option when running the script to colorize the output for certificates that are expiring within 60 days: or Replace  example.com  with the website you'd like to check and  websites.txt  with the path to your input file containing the list of websites.

add a commandline -d to allow for specifying a different period than the 60 days