I have 2 computers, one is Mac Mini which is installed with some script, another is the windows. I am to call the script on the Mac mini from the windows. How can I do it

One way to achieve this is by using SSH (Secure Shell) to remotely access and execute the script on the Mac Mini from the Windows computer. Here are the steps: Make sure that both computers are on the same network and that the Mac Mini has SSH enabled. You can check if SSH is enabled by going to System Preferences > Sharing > Remote Login. Open the Terminal application on your Windows computer. If you don't have it installed, you can download it from the Microsoft Store. In the terminal window, type the following command to connect to the Mac Mini using SSH: Replace  username  with your username on the Mac Mini and  mac-mini-ip-address  with the IP address of the Mac Mini. You will be prompted to enter the password for the user account on the Mac Mini. This will run the script on the Mac Mini from your Windows computer. Note: Make sure that the script is executable by running the following command on the Mac Mini: This will make the script executable by all users.

Oh, the above is all dependent on the terminal or command line operation in the windows, anyway using python in the windows then call a script on the mac mini?

Yes, you can also use Python to remotely execute the script on the Mac Mini from the Windows computer. One way to achieve this is by using the  paramiko  library in Python, which allows you to connect to the Mac Mini via SSH and execute commands. Here's an example Python code that connects to the Mac Mini and executes a script: Replace  mac-mini-ip-address ,  your-username ,  your-password , and  /path/to/your/script.sh  with the appropriate values for your setup. Note that you'll need to have the  paramiko  library installed on your Windows computer before you can run this code. You can install it using pip:

In the above example, what is the overhead of calling "client.exec_command(\