{'user': 'Anonymous', 'message': 'Title: "Analysis of Hilbert transform and analytic signal - YouTube" Video Transcript: ">> One of the transformations that sometimes used in some continuous time signals is Hilbert transform. It\'s not a big deal. This is just an example. Hilbert transform is an LTI filter, which has this unit [inaudible]. If I plot it, it\'s going to be hyperbola like that and so on. So it\'s not a causal filter, but it is a stable anti-causal. So this is -- because not causal, it is not implementable without delay. But you can approximately implement it in digital domain. So the Fourier transform of this particular LTI filter, this is just a normal LTI filter, becomes this function. And this is the sine function, which is equal to minus j for omega being positive and plus j for omega being negative. So is this function, if you calculate h of omega, magnitude of h of omega -- magnitude of this is one. Magnitude of this -- so this is equal one. So it has a constant magnitude. And positive frequencies are multiplied by plus j. And negative frequencies are multiplied by positive. So it\'s kind of like the sign for positive frequencies and negative frequencies are different. So it\'s kind of like this is the only difference. Now the output, this is called Hilbert transform of -- -- transform of x of t. Just LTI filter, simple LTI filter, which you can bond with this 1 over pi t. And it is given by this integral. So this is -- if input is WSS, the output is also wide-sense stationary. And in this example, because power spectral density of the input and output is just equal to -- you multiply these, this is equal to xx of omega times h of omega conjugate. And this guy is equal to conjugate of that, and this is what we get. Now if you calculate the power spectral density of the output, you shall multiply this one as xx of omega by h of omega to the power of 2. And for Hilbert transform, this is equal to 1. So the power spectral density of the input and output are identical. In some examples, like for instance for speech signals and so on, if this is a Hilbert transform of this -- so x of t -- so you convolve with this impulse response of 1 over pi t, you get this as output. Then we call these analytic signals. So that means that calculate -- for a real signal, calculate Hilbert transform. And another signal, when the real part is your signal, and then the imaginary part is your Hilbert transform, you call this z of ts analytic signal corresponding to x of t. So this z of t has a one to one relationship with x of t. And remember that Hilbert transform of Hilbert transform gives you a signal back. So [inaudible] the power spectral density of the analytic signal because you could see that this is equal to x of t convolved with 1 plus 1 over pi t. And then if you take Fourier transform of that, you get this one and then the magnitude of that. So the power spectral density of your analytic signal is interesting. So you get this. So what you