(root) Additional property service is not allowed

The error message "Additional property service is not allowed" usually occurs when you are trying to modify a system property or configuration that is not allowed to be changed. This error can occur in a variety of situations, such as when you are trying to change the system configuration on a restricted account or when you are trying to modify a configuration that is locked by the system administrator. To resolve this error, you may need to obtain administrative privileges or access to the configuration file you are trying to modify. If you are attempting to modify a system configuration, it is important to ensure that you have the necessary permissions and that you are making the changes using a supported method. It is also possible that the error message is indicating that the property or configuration you are trying to modify simply cannot be changed. In this case, you may need to seek alternative solutions to achieve your goals.

"(root) Additional property service is not allowed" in Docker

In Docker, the error message "Additional property service is not allowed" can occur when you are trying to start a container with a service that requires additional privileges that are not allowed by default. To resolve this error, you can try adding the  --privileged  flag when starting the container. This flag grants the container additional privileges, including the ability to modify system properties and configurations. For example, to start a container with the  --privileged  flag, you can use the following command: Note that using the  --privileged  flag can potentially compromise the security of your container and host system, so it should be used with caution. It is recommended to only use this flag when it is absolutely necessary. If you do not require the full set of privileges granted by the  --privileged  flag, you can also try using the  --cap-add  flag to add specific capabilities to the container. For example, if you need to access the  SYS_ADMIN  capability, you can use the following command: This will add the  SYS_ADMIN  capability to the container, which may be sufficient for your needs without granting full privileges.

how to call a post endpoint and attach a png in python