please write cmd sript to enable wake on lan option from windows.

To enable Wake-on-LAN (WOL) in Windows, you can use the following steps: Open the Device Manager by pressing the Windows key + X and selecting Device Manager from the menu. In the Device Manager, expand the Network Adapters category. Right-click on the network adapter you want to enable Wake-on-LAN for and select Properties. In the Properties window, click on the Power Management tab. Check the box next to "Allow this device to wake the computer" and make sure that "Only allow a magic packet to wake the computer" is also checked. Click OK to save the changes. Here is a sample CMD script that can be used to enable Wake-on-LAN: Replace "Name of your network adapter" in the script with the name of the network adapter for which you want to enable Wake-on-LAN. Save the script with a .bat extension and run it with administrative privileges. The script will check if Wake-on-LAN is already enabled for the specified adapter, and if not, it will enable it.

please modified the above script to all wake on lan adapter

Sure, here's an updated CMD script that will enable Wake-on-LAN for all network adapters: Save the script with a .bat extension and run it with administrative privileges. The script will first disable Wake-on-LAN for all currently enabled network adapters, and then enable it for all network adapters that support Wake-on-LAN. The output message will confirm that Wake-on-LAN has been enabled for all network adapters.

please add firewall rule to allow wol

Sure, here's an updated CMD script that will enable Wake-on-LAN for all network adapters and add a firewall rule to allow the necessary traffic: Save the script with a .bat extension and run it with administrative privileges. The script will first disable Wake-on-LAN for all currently enabled network adapters, and then enable it for all network adapters that support Wake-on-LAN. The output message will confirm that Wake-on-LAN has been enabled for all network adapters. The script will also add a firewall rule to allow the necessary Wake-on-LAN traffic on port 9 (UDP). The output message will confirm that the firewall rule has been added.

please create cmd/powershell script to install any software to any system from cmd