{'user': 'Anonymous', 'message': 'Summarize this "Bisphenol-A The paper focused on the substance bisphenol-A, or BPA, a chemical that’s been in the news for a few years now as one that shows hormone-like behavior, and has been associated with a number of health issues. BPA is a component of polycarbonate plastic, and is used as an additive in some epoxy resins and other materials. In recent years, concerns over potential health effects have led to it’s removal or substitution in many cases, especially water bottles and baby bottles, even though the weight of scientific evidence still suggests that, under most circumstances, exposures to the chemical from consumer products are too low to cause concern. This was reenforced earlier in the year with a long and weighty review by the European Food Safety Agency, or EFSA. Rather than reading the entire 500 pages (riveting as it is), you can catch the highlights in under five minutes in this Risk Bites video: The EFSA review reiterated the findings of a number of other expert assessments and concluded that, while BPA has the potential to cause harm in the body at high levels, most exposures are so low that the risks are negligible based on current understanding. However, the vast majority of studies carried out so far – and the focus of the EFSA report – assume that ingesting BPA from contaminated food is the most relevant source of exposure. Ingested BPA isn’t readily absorbed from your gut, and when it is, the substance is rapidly converted, or metabolized, into a less harmful form, and got rid of in healthy adults. BPA in cash register receipts There is another way that BPA can potentially get into your body though, and that’s through your skin. This is the route that the team based at the University of Missouri were particularly interested in. And in particular, whether BPA in those ubiquitous cash register receipts could present an issue. BPA is used as a developer for heat-sensitive ink in many cash register receipts that use thermal paper. It’s applied as a surface coating, and so in principle can be transferred from the receipt to your hands during handling. From there, there’s the possibility of it passing straight through your skin and into your body, or transferring to food that you’re holding, and from there into your gut. Can BPA get into your body through your skin? Previous research has hinted that this might be a viable exposure route. It’s an interesting one as, unlike polycarbonate bottles where most of the BPA is locked up in the plastic, the BPA used in thermal paper is relatively available. Research so far has indicated that handling cash register receipts probably doesn’t lead to high exposures under normal conditions. However, the Missouri team wondered whether there were circumstances that might change this – using hand sanitizers for instance that are potentially able to dissolve the BPA from the receipt, and enhance absorption through the skin. To test this, they first measured