HI! I need a holder for a notebook display for a busy light. Do you have any ideas?

Certainly! There are a few different options you could consider for a notebook display holder with a busy light. Here are a few ideas: Monitor mount with a VESA adapter: If your notebook display has a VESA mount, you could consider using a monitor mount with a VESA adapter to hold both the display and the busy light. This would allow you to adjust the height and position of the display as needed, and keep the busy light in a visible spot. Laptop stand with an arm: If your notebook display does not have a VESA mount, you could consider using a laptop stand with an arm to hold the display and the busy light. Look for a stand that has an adjustable arm so you can position the display and busy light where you need them. Desk clamp mount: Another option is to use a desk clamp mount that can hold both the display and the busy light. This would allow you to position the display and busy light above your desk, keeping them both within easy reach. DIY solution: If you're feeling crafty, you could consider creating your own holder using a combination of materials. For example, you could use a piece of wood or plastic as a base, and attach a flexible arm or clamp to hold the display and busy light. Regardless of which option you choose, be sure to take into account the weight and size of your notebook display and busy light, as well as the durability and stability of the holder.

Sorry, I only want to mount the busy light an the back side of the notebook display. Do you have any ideas for that?

Ah, I see! In that case, here are a few ideas for mounting a busy light to the back side of a notebook display: Velcro Strips: You can use velcro strips to attach the busy light to the back side of the notebook display. Stick one side of the velcro strip to the back of the busy light and the other side to the back of the notebook display. Adhesive Mounting Tape: You can use adhesive mounting tape to attach the busy light to the back side of the notebook display. Apply the tape to the back of the busy light and stick it to the back of the notebook display. Magnetic Mounting: If your busy light has a magnetic base, you can attach it to the back side of the notebook display. Just place the magnet on the back of the display and the busy light will stick to it. 3D Printed Holder: If you have access to a 3D printer, you could create a custom holder to attach the busy light to the back of the notebook display. There are many 3D printing design files available online that you can customize to fit your specific notebook display and busy light. When using any of these methods, make sure that the busy light doesn't obstruct the view of the display and that it is securely attached to avoid any damage or accidental falls.