How do I write a small python http server (using flask or some other similar framework) that has three api endpoints, one for getting the value of "the" counter, one for incrementing it and one for decrementing it?

You can use Flask to create a simple HTTP server with three endpoints for getting, incrementing and decrementing a counter. Here is a sample code: In this code, we define a global variable  counter  to store the current value of the counter. We then define three Flask endpoints: When the  /counter/inc  or  /counter/dec  endpoint is called, we update the value of the  counter  variable using the  global  keyword to make sure we are referring to the global variable and not creating a new local variable with the same name. To run this code, save it to a file (e.g.  counter.py ) and run it with  python counter.py . You can then access the endpoints using a web browser or a tool like cURL: Note: This is a very simple example and is not intended for production use. For example, it does not handle errors, authentication, or concurrency.

What if I want to pass a amount parameter to the second and third route?

If you want to pass an amount parameter to the second and third route, you can modify the code as follows: In this modified code, we import the  request  module from Flask, which provides access to the HTTP request data. We then modify the  /counter/inc  and  /counter/dec  endpoints to read an  amount  parameter from the request data using  request.form.get('amount', 1) . If the  amount  parameter is not present in the request data, the default value of  1  is used. We then update the  counter  variable by adding or subtracting the  amount  value. To use this modified code, you can pass an  amount  parameter in the request data when calling the  /counter/inc  or  /counter/dec  endpoints. For example: In these examples, we pass an  amount  parameter of  3  and  2 , respectively, when calling the  /counter/inc  and  /counter/dec  endpoints. The  counter  variable is then updated accordingly.

What if I want to pass the amount parameter as json?