{'user': 'Anonymous', 'message': 'Using the following introduction paragraph as an inspiration, write an outline for a City and Regional Planning graduate level thesis paper about the importance of accessory dwelling units (ADUs) for combatting the housing crisis: "What do American cities have against Accessory Dwelling Units (ADUs)? Cities across the United States are currently facing a housing shortage not seen in this country since the 1960s, which many experts attribute to a combination of economic factors due to the 2008 recession and the COVID-19 pandemic. The impacts of this shortage on everyday families and individuals are profound: over 11 million families spend more than 30% of their income on housing and are considered "cost-burdened" by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, and thus are less able to spend on other important needs, including transportation, education, and health care. Of this group, more than 1.6 million are disabled and/or are not part of the U.S. labor force. Beyond cost-burdened households, the national housing shortage and dearth of new construction has contributed to a homelessness crisis, leading to a 9% increase in homelessness for every $100 increase in median rent across the nation. However, economic downturns and global pandemics do not explain the full picture of the current housing crisis, and the scale at which these issues occur does not lend itself to solutions-driven policy and advocacy work for planners, housing activists, elected officials, and others concerned about the rising costs (and shortage of) affordable, accessible, and sustainable housing. Instead, there is a much more tangible problem affecting the supply of affordable housing at the local level: exclusionary zoning practices that limit the number of homes built and the single-family, large lot-size model of development that predominates zoning laws across the country.  Unfortunately, full-fledged zoning reforms are not easy or quick, and even when successful, it can take years for the production of much-needed multi-family housing to shift into gear in rezoned areas. In addition to working towards more comprehensive zoning reforms, there is a simpler zoning fix that could, if combined with other policy levers, dramatically and quickly improve the production of new housing in many communities - allowing "by-right" construction of accessory dwelling units on all single-family lots. In this paper, we will examine how cities and everyday residents can capitalize on the very same large-lot sizes to quickly add an abundance of housing through by-right ADUs, and we will show how many ADUs could be built in several sample communities by using geospatial topological set-theoretic relationships and affine transformations. After this analysis is complete, we will investigate the variety of limiting factors and layers of feasibility from zoning and other factors that impact the ability of working-class Americans to benefit from ADUs, a