Write a Python code that randomly generates 6 time series of asset prices. The time series should be weekly and is 6 years long, starting from 1 January 2018. Use the cumsum function. Save these series in a dataframe called asset_df.

Here's an example Python code that uses NumPy to randomly generate 6 time series of asset prices using the  cumsum  function, and then stores them in a Pandas DataFrame called  asset_df . The time series is weekly, and is 6 years long starting from 1 January 2018. In this code, we use the NumPy  random.randn  function to generate random price movements for each asset. We set the random seed to 42 to ensure reproducibility. We then use the  cumsum  function to generate the asset prices from the price movements. Finally, we create a Pandas DataFrame called  asset_df  to store the asset prices. The DataFrame has a date index generated using the  pd.date_range  function, and columns named  Asset 1  to  Asset 6  for each of the 6 assets.

Using the above data, use FFT to analyze the series in a sliding window fashion. The window should be 6 months long and each shift should be 1 month. Save the resulting frequencies in a new dataframe called fft_df.

Here's an example Python code that uses the Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) to analyze the 6 time series of asset prices in a sliding window fashion. The window is 6 months long, and each shift is 1 month. The resulting frequencies are stored in a new Pandas DataFrame called  fft_df . In this code, we define the window size and step size for the sliding window FFT analysis. We calculate the number of windows based on the length of the time series and the window and step sizes. We then initialize an empty Pandas DataFrame called  fft_df  to store the FFT results for each asset and each window. We loop over the windows and calculate the FFT for each asset using the  np.fft.fft  function. We then extract the positive frequencies using the  np.fft.fftfreq  function and store the average FFT amplitudes in  fft_df . We transpose the DataFrame and set the asset names as the row index. Finally, we set the window numbers as the column names, convert them to integers, and sort them in ascending order. The resulting DataFrame  fft_df  contains the FFT frequencies for each asset and each window.

Use the frequencies in fft_df to train a self-organizing map. The SOM should be 4x4 in size.  Afterwards, print out the cluster assignment of each data in a new dataframe, cluster_df. Perform all plotting with plotly,