do you know the game klondike

Yes, I am familiar with the game Klondike. It is a solitaire card game that is played with a deck of 52 cards. The objective of the game is to move all of the cards from the tableau (the main playing area) to the foundation piles (the four piles in the upper right corner of the tableau). The foundation piles are built up in suit from Ace to King. In the game, the tableau is made up of seven columns of cards. The first column has one card, the second has two cards, and so on, until the seventh column has seven cards. The top card in each column is face up, while the rest of the cards in the column are face down. To play the game, you can move cards from the tableau to the foundation piles or to the waste pile (the pile of discarded cards at the upper left corner of the tableau). You can also draw cards from the stock pile (the pile of unused cards at the upper left corner of the tableau) to the waste pile, and then move cards from the waste pile to the foundation piles or the tableau. Klondike is a popular card game that is easy to learn and can be played by people of all ages. It is a good game to play when you want to relax and pass the time.

not card game, lost expedition

Lost Expedition is a board game that was created by Peer Sylvester and published by Osprey Games in 2017. It is a cooperative game for 1-5 players that takes about 45-60 minutes to play. In Lost Expedition, players take on the role of a group of adventurers who are attempting to find the lost city of Z in the Amazon jungle. The game is set in the late 19th century, and players must navigate their way through the jungle, facing dangers such as venomous snakes, crocodiles, and piranhas. Each player has a unique character with different abilities and specialties, and they must work together to overcome the challenges they encounter in the jungle. The game is played over a series of rounds, and players must collect resources, such as food and water, in order to survive. They must also make decisions about which paths to take through the jungle, as some paths may lead to danger while others may lead to valuable resources. Lost Expedition is a challenging and exciting game that requires strategic thinking and cooperation between players. It is a great choice for fans of cooperative board games and adventure themes.

I mean the klondike game with leontius' mine game