{'user': 'Anonymous', 'message': 'Hello GPT, I am Fady. I want to discuss an initiative I did before. Subject: ‘Dngla’ Community Initiative. The problem: the scarcity of opportunities available to members of Egyptian society, the lack of means of face-to-face communication, and poor communication skills. Mission: Gathering the audience looking for opportunities in one platform, and exploiting this platform in holding field events that allow: developing delivery skills, face-to-face communication, and benefit exchange through supply and demand for opportunities. Actions: I established a closed Facebook group aimed at gathering those interested in field activities and events. It developed its vision, mission and rules so that the mission can be achieved in the most effective and shortest time. A list of available activities, recreational, sports, business, and culture, was drawn up. I started to grow the number of group members until it reached 10,000 members. I put in place an organizational structure to run the group both digitally and on the ground, including a CFO, CMO and others who all worked on a voluntary basis. I have developed a detailed introductory guide to what the institution is, its purpose, vision and mission. I put together a guide to working as a group manager and event organizer on the ground. I formed a volunteer team to run the group digitally. I formed another volunteer team to organize field events. I appointed a manager for both teams. Organized some for-profit events and contracted with some advertisers to promote their activities on the platform. I used the profit to pay for free psychological awareness events, and to share business start-up experiences. It also allowed influential members to take advantage of the numbers on the platform to organize work experience sharing events. I also used my skills in teaching training courses to provide training courses on marketing and translation at nominal prices, in return for discovering and attracting competencies to work with me in the marketing and translation team. The result: The number of platform members has reached 94,000 so far, and is increasing daily. The organization has been staffed by 23 volunteers for more than a year and a half now. About 36 individuals got a job through work experience sharing events. 6 individuals who attended the Business Startup Experiences events started their own company. Thirteen people started seeing a therapist after psychoeducational events. An Android application is currently being built that will focus on sharing events and opportunities, community engagement, and field activities. The initiative received much feedbacks about the transformation of their vision towards members of society and towards the opposite sex. Thesis: Opportunities are available, but they need to be adapted and linked, through organized and strategic work aimed at raising the quality of life of individuals in the community by intensifying community communication,