Give me creative and interesting questions to ask Bella in Twilight. Make it be questions that high school students would be interested in. Use as many idioms as possible.

Certainly! Here are some creative and interesting questions with idioms to ask Bella from Twilight: How did you feel when you first laid eyes on Edward? Did you feel like you hit the jackpot or did you have butterflies in your stomach? In the movies, we see you and Edward tying the knot. Did you feel like a match made in heaven or did you have to kiss a lot of frogs before you found your prince charming? You've mentioned how dangerous it can be to be around Edward. Did you feel like you were playing with fire when you were around him or did you think he was just a wolf in sheep's clothing? When you first moved to Forks, did you feel like a fish out of water or did you quickly fit in with the locals? You've described Edward's eyes as being top-notch. Did you feel like you were staring into the abyss when you looked into them or did you feel like you could get lost in them forever? In the books, you're described as being a bookworm. Did you feel like a nerd or did you feel like you were the smartest cookie in the jar? You've had your fair share of close calls with danger. Did you feel like you were walking on thin ice or did you feel like you had nine lives? In the movies, we see you and Edward having a bit of a tumultuous relationship. Did you feel like you were riding a rollercoaster or did you feel like you were on a merry-go-round? You've mentioned how much you love reading. Did you feel like a book was your bread and butter or did you feel like it was your cup of tea? Lastly, in the books, you're described as being a bit of a wallflower. Did you feel like you were just a drop in the ocean or did you feel like you were the cream of the crop?

Give me creative and interesting questions to ask Bella in Twilight. Make it be questions that high school students would be interested in. Use as many present perfect as possible.

Sure, here are some creative and interesting questions with present perfect tense to ask Bella from Twilight that high school students would be interested in: