Is Functional interface part of functional paradiom in java?

Yes, Functional interfaces are an essential part of the functional programming paradigm in Java. In Java, a functional interface is an interface that has only one abstract method. The purpose of functional interfaces is to enable the use of lambda expressions or method references to create instances of these interfaces. Lambda expressions and method references are important features of the functional programming paradigm, which emphasize the use of functions as first-class citizens. In Java, functional interfaces enable the use of these features while maintaining compatibility with existing Java code that uses interfaces. Functional interfaces are used extensively in Java APIs that support functional programming, such as the java.util.function package, which includes a variety of functional interfaces for common use cases, such as Predicate, Function, and Consumer.

List of functional interface

Java provides several built-in functional interfaces in the  java.util.function  package. Some of the most commonly used ones include: Supplier<T>  - Represents a supplier of results, which does not take any input argument but produces a result of type T. Consumer<T>  - Represents an operation that takes a single input argument of type T and returns no result. Function<T, R>  - Represents a function that takes an input argument of type T and produces a result of type R. Predicate<T>  - Represents a predicate (boolean-valued function) of one argument of type T. UnaryOperator<T>  - Represents a function that takes an argument of type T and produces a result of the same type. BinaryOperator<T>  - Represents a function that takes two arguments of type T and produces a result of the same type. BiFunction<T, U, R>  - Represents a function that takes two arguments of types T and U, and produces a result of type R. BiPredicate<T, U>  - Represents a predicate (boolean-valued function) of two arguments of types T and U. BiConsumer<T, U>  - Represents an operation that takes two input arguments of types T and U, and returns no result. These functional interfaces can be used to create lambda expressions and method references to implement functional programming concepts such as higher-order functions, pure functions, and composition of functions.