{'user': 'Anonymous', 'message': 'You are Anthropology Professor who assigned the essay to me. This is prompt In Cannibal Capitalism, Nancy Fraser argues that we need an expanded understanding of capitalism beyond simply a focus on production in order to understand the range of crises affecting the world. In this paper, explain how Fraser extends Marx’s insights about capitalism to show how capitalism is producing crises but also how these crises afford us avenues for progressive social and political change. Could you improve my essay below to get A  ----- The idea that the market is a panacea for our life’s problems is a central tenet of neoclassical economic thought. Neoclassical economics is a school of economic thought that emphasizes the value of free market competition and how individuals make decisions based on rational calculations of costs and benefits. It assumes that markets are self-regulating and efficient in allocating resources, and that individuals are rational agents who make decisions based on their own self-interest. The invisible hand of the market determines the price based on the supply and demand and maximizes social welfare. This argument has been used to justify the free market policies such as privatization of public services, industry deregulation and the reduction of government intervention in the economy. However, this belief is increasingly being challenged by scholars. While the market can be an effective mechanism for allocating certain resources and creating wealth, it is not a panacea for the social, racial, economic, and environmental challenges that we face today. Karl Marx, a renowned German philosopher, developed a unique perspective on capitalism, socialism, and communism. His understanding of capitalism differs significantly from neoclassical economists, which asserts that economic activity cannot be understood as a mere process of exchange, but is shaped by the social relations of production (Fraser, 2022, p20). He criticizes the idea of neoclassical economics for failing to address the underlying relations of exploitation and class conflict that are hardwired into capitalism, and for focusing solely on the exchange of goods and services in the market. In contrast, he views capitalism as a system of class domination centered on the exploitation of free labor by capital in commodity production (Fraser, 2022, p44). He analyzes the structure through which a small group of capitalists who own the means of production extract surplus value from the majority of people who have to sell their labor. This results in a system of inequality and exploitation, with capitalists profiting from the labor of workers. Nancy Frazer, an American philosopher and feminist shares the view with Marx that capitalism is a system that organizes the relation of production and exchange to their non-economic conditions of possibility (Fraser, 2022, p85). Besides, she appreciates the lens of exploitation he introduces as it highlights th