{'user': 'Anonymous', 'message': '4 / 4Write an agreement to engage Baker Property Inspections LLC to do field service work for submission to a separate engineering firm for Permanent Foundation Certification'}
{'user': 'Chat GPT', 'message': 'AGREEMENT TO ENGAGE BAKER PROPERTY INSPECTIONS LLC FOR FIELD SERVICE WORK FOR PERMANENT FOUNDATION CERTIFICATION This Agreement is made and entered into on [date] (the "Effective Date") by and between [Client Name] ("Client") and Baker Property Inspections LLC ("Baker"), with a mailing address of [Address], and an email address of [Email]. WHEREAS, the Client is seeking a Permanent Foundation Certification from a separate engineering firm; and WHEREAS, Baker is a qualified and experienced property inspection company capable of performing field service work necessary for the certification process. NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants and promises contained herein, the parties agree as follows: Fees. The Client will pay Baker the fees listed in the attached Fee Schedule for the services provided. The Client agrees to pay all fees within 30 days of receipt of an invoice. Access to Property. The Client will provide Baker with access to the property at the scheduled time and date of the inspection. The Client agrees to notify Baker in advance of any restrictions or limitations on access to the property. Warranties and Representations. The Client represents and warrants that it is the lawful owner of the property or has the necessary authority to engage Baker for the services described herein. The Client further represents and warrants that all information provided to Baker is accurate and complete. Limitation of Liability. In no event shall Baker be liable to the Client for any damages, including but not limited to incidental, consequential, or punitive damages, arising from or related to the services provided hereunder. Baker\'s liability shall be limited to the amount of fees paid by the Client for the services provided. Termination. Either party may terminate this Agreement upon written notice to the other party. In the event of termination, the Client will pay Baker for all services performed up to the date of termination. Governing Law. This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of [State], without regard to its conflict of law provisions. Entire Agreement. This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the parties and supersedes all prior or contemporaneous agreements or representations, whether written or oral. Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original and all of which together shall constitute one instrument. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the Effective Date. [Client Name]: [Authorized Signatory\'s Signature] [Authorized Signatory\'s Name] [Title] Baker Property Inspections LLC: [Authorized Signatory\'s Signature] [Authorized Signat