In angular How do you load an NgModule into its own bundle?

To load an NgModule into its own bundle in Angular, you can use the Angular CLI to generate a lazy-loaded module and a corresponding routing module. This will allow you to load the module and its associated components asynchronously when the user navigates to a specified route. Here is an example of how to do this using the Angular CLI: This will create a new module file ( my-lazy-module.module.ts ) and a corresponding routing module ( my-lazy-module-routing.module.ts ). Define the routes for the lazy-loaded module in the routing module. For example: Now, when the user navigates to the  /my-lazy-module  route, the  MyLazyModuleModule  and its associated components will be loaded asynchronously. I hope this helps! Let me know if you have any questions.

Select one option  What is the purpose of the providers array of an Angular module? To define the set of objects available for dependency injection To define the components that the application provides to other parts of the application To define the libraries the application uses, including Angular system and third-party libraries To define the components, custom directives, and custom pipes the module needs I don't know yet.

To define the set of objects available for dependency injection.

Select one option: You are building a project of type "library" with the ng build command. What option would you pass to this command when you invoke a different builder? --prod --cross-origin --configuration --base-href I don\

--configuration

Select one option: How can you test your application using Protractor with the Angular command-line interface (CLI)? ng test ng e2e ng protractor ng serve --test I don't know yet.

ng e2e

Select one option: What must you add on your second router-outlet if you want to use a component-less route to load two components? A LoadChildren attribute set to true The routerLink directive A name attribute that matches the outlet property of the second component A path attribute that matches the path of the second component I don't know yet.

A name attribute that matches the outlet property of the second component.