{'user': 'Anonymous', 'message': 'Here\'s a list of goals and themes I would like to explore thought out my fantasy novel series. 1.)Leadership styles and group dynamics: how different leadership styles influence the dynamics within a group or organization. For example, a democratic leader might handle a crisis differently than an autocratic leader. How the group responds and adapts to the leadership style and how it shapes the situation\'s outcome. 2.)Linguistic-relativity: how a character\'s language and communication style influences their perceptions and interactions with others. 3.)Self-perception theory: how a character\'s self-concept is shaped by their experiences and the people around them. 4.)Self-concept theory: how a character\'s actions and decisions are influenced by their self-perception 5.)Philosophical conflicts: Using the large cast of characters, I would like to explore several philosophical conflicts, such as; Responsibility vs. Freedom, Humility vs. Arrogance, and many more. 6.) The main goal of this novel series is to show readers that balance is important. And that nothing is ever just good or evil. As well as how powerful perspective is. 7.) I would like the Specters to be a physical representation of a person\'s true self. And the magic system I provided is meant to allow humans to become more powerful when their specter and themselves align. 8.) Show readers how to: A.) have meaningful conversations and B.) what healthy and unhealthy relationships look like. C.) different relationships affect you and the people around Here is the Premise of the Novel: "Specter Ark" is a multi-POV fantasy novel series set in a nonlinear, third-person limited narrative. In this world, a meteor crash introduced magic energy, enabling humans to summon Supernatural beings and mythical creatures called Specters. As the meteor\'s energy dwindled, a shaman crafted the Specter Ark to preserve 37 powerful Specters. Centuries later, archaeologists accidentally release these spirit-like Specters, who can now only interact with the world when manifested by humans whose values align with their own. In this novel, the journeys of 20 main characters are intertwined: 10 Specters and the 10 humans who can manifest them. Each pair, driven by unique motivations and desires, must collaborate to achieve their goals. Throughout their adventures, they encounter the remaining 27 Specters and their respective human partners, revealing the impact of this rediscovered magic on the world around them. Here are the Rules and limitations of the magic system: Humans can perform a birthday ritual to detect or attract Specters, which are invisible and cannot interact until the ritual is performed. Specters can only be seen by their attached human or when physically manifested. Once attached, Specters cannot attach to another human or be seen by other Specters. The human feels the Specter\'s pain, and the Specter dies if the human does, unless the bond is released. Specter