{'user': 'Anonymous', 'message': 'Summarize this article: In a new study, researchers remarkably grew miniature brains with a set of eye-like formations called optic cups. The optic cups are precursors to the retina, and its development within the mini organoids resembled the emergence of eye structures in human embryos. The research could help scientists understand eye diseases, eye development, and differentiation processes, reports Michelle Starr for Science Alert. The study was published this week in the journal Cell Stem Cell. Organoids are small, three-dimensional tissue cultures that can replicate organs. Researchers grow tiny organoids from stem cells, or cells that have the potential to mature into any cell in the body, reports Yasemin Saplakoglu for Live Science. Growing organoids allows researchers to peer into how organs develop and provide valuable insights into how organs could react to specific drugs or treatments. There are two types of stem cells: adult stem cells and embryonic stem cells. Human-induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) are a type of adult stem cell, which are derived from human embryos. Instead, iPSCs are taken from adult human cells, usually from a skin or blood sample, and converted into an embryonic-like state. Instead of remaining a skin or blood cell, these iPSC cells can now develop into any cell in the body. In previous studies, only pure retinal cells or optic cups were grown in the lab individually. Jay Gopalakrishnan, an organoid expert at University Hospital Düsseldorf, and his colleagues used iPSC-grown mini brains to see if eye structures could develop as an integrated part of the organoid—instead of growing the two parts separately, Science Alert reports.'}
{'user': 'Chat GPT', 'message': 'Scientists have grown miniature brains with eye-like structures in a study published in the journal Cell Stem Cell. Known as organoids, the three-dimensional tissue cultures were grown from human-induced pluripotent stem cells, which can develop into any type of cell in the body. Researchers hope the study will help them understand eye diseases, eye development and differentiation processes. Previous research has focused on growing pure retinal cells or optic cups in the lab, but this study used iPSC-grown mini brains to see if eye structures could develop as part of an integrated organoid.'}