I'm writing a low-latency, real-time and secure webchat application in Rust language. What library for socket connection can I use?

There are a few libraries for socket connections in Rust that you can use for a webchat application, such as: tokio-tungstenite : This library uses the  tokio  library for asynchronous I/O and the  tungstenite  library for WebSocket functionality. It is a lightweight, low-latency option. async-std-websocket : This library uses the  async-std  library for asynchronous I/O and provides a high-level API for working with WebSockets. ws-rs : This is a lightweight, rust-native WebSocket library, it is also provides low-latency and high-performance. actix-web-web-sockets : This is a rust web framework that also provides websocket connection, which is built on top of  actix-web . All of these libraries should provide the necessary functionality for a webchat application and offer good performance, security and low latency. You can choose one that you feel more comfortable with.

But those are not Sockets, those are WebSockets

You are correct, my apologies for the confusion. The libraries I mentioned earlier are for WebSockets, which is a protocol for bidirectional, real-time communication between a client and a server over the web. If you are looking for a library for socket connections in Rust, some options include: mio : This is a low-level, event-driven I/O library that provides a lightweight, efficient, and customizable way to work with sockets. tokio-tcp  :This library is built on top of  tokio  and provides an easy-to-use, high-level API for working with TCP sockets. smol : It is a small, simple and efficient library for async I/O. It provides a low-level TCP and UDP sockets async-std-net : It is an asynchronous networking library built on top of  async-std  . It provides a high-level API for working with TCP and UDP sockets. All of these libraries can be used to create secure, low-latency socket connections for a webchat application. You should choose the one that you feel more comfortable with and best suits your needs.

Is UDP good for chat app?