{'user': 'Anonymous', 'message': 'the following prompt is used for a short essay for the book Frankenstein by Mary Shelley, explain the following prompt, what it means, how to analyze it and what kind of textual evidence can be used to support it: The eighteenth-century British novelist Laurence Sterne wrote, “No body, but he who has felt it, can conceive what a plaguing thing it is to have a man’s mind torn asunder by two projects of equal strength, both obstinately pulling in a contrary direction at the same time.” From Frankenstein, choose a character whose mind is pulled in conflicting directions by compelling desires, ambitions, obligations, or influences. Then, in a well-developed essay, identify the conflicting forces and explain how this conflict with one character illuminates the meaning of the work as a whole.'}
{'user': 'Chat GPT', 'message': "The prompt asks you to choose a character from Mary Shelley's Frankenstein and analyze how their mind is torn apart by two opposing desires, ambitions, obligations, or influences. The objective is to demonstrate how this conflict illuminates the meaning of the work as a whole. To begin, you should select a character whose inner turmoil is evident in the novel, like Victor Frankenstein, the creature, or Robert Walton. Then, identify the two opposing forces that are causing the conflict in the character's mind. These forces might include a desire for love and revenge, a need for companionship and isolation, or a commitment to science and a duty to society. Next, you will need to analyze how this internal conflict illuminates the meaning of the novel. Consider how the character's conflict reflects broader themes in the book, such as the dangers of unchecked ambition, the consequences of playing God, or the destructive nature of revenge. Also, think about how this conflict shapes the character's development throughout the novel, and how it affects other characters and the plot. Finally, to support your analysis, look for textual evidence from the novel. You may find quotes or passages that demonstrate the character's conflicting desires or that highlight the themes you are exploring. You can also draw on the character's actions and interactions with other characters to support your argument. For example, you might choose Victor Frankenstein, whose mind is torn apart by his desire for scientific discovery and his guilt over creating the monster. You could argue that this conflict highlights the novel's theme of the danger of unchecked ambition, as Victor's desire for knowledge leads him to create a being that ultimately destroys him. You could also analyze how Victor's inner turmoil affects his relationships with others, such as his family and friends, and how it shapes the novel's plot. In summary, this prompt requires you to analyze a character's internal conflict and its significance in the context of the novel. You should choose a character whose conflicting desires, ambitions, obligations, or inf