how to do integration testing in an express app with mvc pattern

Integration testing in an Express app with MVC pattern involves testing the interactions between the different components of the application such as routes, controllers, models, and views. Here are the steps to perform integration testing in an Express app with MVC pattern: Set up a testing environment: Create a separate database for testing and install testing dependencies like Mocha, Chai, and Supertest. Define test scenarios: Identify the different scenarios that need to be tested, such as testing a successful or failed login, creating or updating data, or testing error handling. Write test cases: Write test cases for each scenario and include assertions to ensure that the expected results are achieved. For example, you can use Supertest to send requests to the routes and test the response status code and response data. Create mock data: Create mock data that can be used for testing. This can include data for creating new resources, updating existing ones, and deleting data. Run the tests: Run the test cases using a testing framework like Mocha. This will help you identify any errors or issues in the code. Fix errors and re-run tests: Fix any errors or issues identified in the test cases and re-run the tests until all test cases pass. Repeat: Continue testing new scenarios and updating existing test cases as the application changes. Remember to test both positive and negative scenarios, test for edge cases, and ensure that the tests cover all functionality of the application. Integration testing is important as it helps ensure that the application works as expected and that all components are working together correctly.

given the file structure -controllers  -art  - city -models  -art  -city -routes  -art.js  - city.js  -routes.js write integration testing for the above app using supertest

Sure! Here is an example of how to write integration tests for an Express app with MVC pattern using Supertest: Assuming the following endpoints exist: The test file structure should be in a separate folder called  tests : Example of a test for the Art controller ( art.test.js ): Example of a test for the City controller ( city.test.js ): Make sure to update the test file paths according to the project file structure. Also, ensure that the test database is being used during the testing process and that all mock data is created and removed as needed.

2 / 2how to test this supertest now?