show me an example in Typescript, of a function called addTab. The parameters of the function are label, id, active, and link. the type of the active parameter is a boolean, and the others are strings. the function will add a new tab object with those fields, and will push it into an array variable called tabs outside the scope of the function

This function takes in four parameters, three of type string and one of type boolean. It creates a new tab object with properties label, id, active and link and pushes it to the tabs array.

rewrite this in normal javascript (not typescript)

This function takes in four parameters without any type declaration. It creates a new tab object with properties label, id, active and link and pushes it to the tabs array.

add 10 lines calling addTab. for each one, generate typical examples for each field that would be commonly used for a tabset for a website

Each function call creates a new tab object with label, id, active and link properties, and pushes it to the tabs array. The first call sets the home tab to active, the rest of the calls set the active property to false. This should give you an idea of how to use the addTab function. However, this is just a sample, the actual tabs and their properties will depend on your use case.

move the tabs array into a variable "data", which has "tabs" as a field

This function creates an object  data  that has a single field called  tabs  which is an array. Then, the function creates a new tab object with properties label, id, active and link and pushes it to the  tabs  array inside the  data  object.

change the domain name in the link field for each tab to be www.my-awesome-site.com

This code creates an object  data  that has a single field called  tabs  which is an array. Then, the  addTab  function takes three parameters, label, id and active. The function then creates a new link by concatenating " " with the lowercase version of the label parameter, then creates a new tab object with properties label, id, active and link and pushes it to the  tabs  array inside the  data  object. It also calls the addTab function 10 times to add the tabs and in each call, the label of the tab is used to construct the link field and the domain name is set to  .