{'user': 'Anonymous', 'message': 'or this product: "Amazon Essentials Boys and Toddlers\' Fleece Pullover Hoodie Sweatshirts" with this description: 60% Cotton, 40% Polyester Imported No Closure closure Machine Wash A must-have pick for distinctive style, this pullover hooded sweatshirt is a fun choice for everyday wear With a kangaroo pocket, elastic ribbing at the cuffs and hem Everyday made better: we listen to customer feedback and fine-tune every detail to ensure quality, fit, and comfort Amazon Essentials has what you need to outfit your little ones in affordable, high-quality, and long-lasting everyday clothing. Our line of kids\' must-haves includes cozy fleeces and oh-so warm puffer jackets to keep them bundled up when the temperatures drop, as well as school uniform-ready pants and polo shirts. Consistent sizing takes the guesswork out of shopping, and each piece is put to the test to maintain parent-approved standards in quality and comfort. and these reviews: 2 votes Question:What size sweatshirt should I buy for an average size 7 year old boy? Answer:Hi, my son is 11 and is average size (not quite 5\'0 and weighs 80 lbs.) - he wears an XL which is basically a 14/16. I have always sized up one from his age. Hope this helps. By Mom of Two on December 14, 2021 1 vote Question:What size is a xxlarge? Answer:There is a size guide below the listing. It lists all sizes and measurements. By Amber on December 4, 2022  See more answers (1) 0 votes Question:What is the width (chest) measurement for the small and large? Answer:There is a size guide below the listing. It lists all sizes and measurements. By Amber on December 4, 2022 0 votes Question:Que talla es xl Answer:Es S en adultos. By Reiner Lugo on September 28, 2022 Size: 2TColor: BlackVerified Purchase Sweatshirt is super cozy and warm, exactly what I was looking for ahead of spring soccer starting up in the Midwest. My only complaint is that the neck hole is a little small & it’s really hard to pull off at the end of the day. My kids are top of the charts for head circumference, so I get it. If you’re like us, buckle up for a wrestling match when you try to remove the hoodie! Helpful Report abuse  Lisa S. 5.0 out of 5 stars Not just for boys Reviewed in the United States 🇺🇸 on January 28, 2023 Size: LargeColor: RedVerified Purchase This is a great product. Perfect weight perfect fit all good. My problem is that I needed two of them. I have a 10 year old boy and an eight year old girl who are nearly the same size. I almost ordered two of another product, labeled for girls, because it didn’t look like it could be specifically for girls but I really didn’t want to risk making my son wear a “girly” hoodie so I looked for one that was for boys. I found this one and paid seven dollars more than the other because it said for boys. When they arrived the absolute only difference is that inside the hood around the neck the “boys” hoodie has blue stitching. I won’t return this one because it was