{'user': 'Anonymous', 'message': "2 / 2Please summarize the video transcript below in 6 bullet points: Intro So you’ve decided your game needs a rhythm part in it. Or maybe you want to create a new rhythm game from scratch. Great idea! You’ve caught the Rhythm Bug. We were gonna call it ‘Beatmania,’ but that was already taken. Be careful, though! You’ve wandered into a dark forest. One false step and you could fall victim to the silent killer: BAD RHYTHM UX. Rhythm games depend on great UX. I can’t think of a genre that’s as closely tied to its interface as rhythm games. If an RPG has terrible menus but a great story, you can manage. A really janky-looking shooter that feels good to play can sell millions of copies. But a rhythm game with a weird UI or one that feels wrong can be dead in the water. Good interfaces aren’t simple to design, but there are plenty of easy things to do that can improve a mediocre one, and there’s a shocking number of rhythm games that just don’t bother. Let’s take a tour of the current state of rhythm game UI and UX and look at how to put the ‘fun’ in ‘fun-ctional rhythm game user interfaces.’ Display Look around you. Does your space say… ‘me’? Or does it say ‘me need posters’? Go pick up some really nice ones at today’s episode sponsor, Displate! Check this out. I’ve decorated this wall with a bunch of new posters, and not just any posters. METAL posters. You put them up with magnets! I’m never going back to paper posters again. Displate has thousands of designs ready to ship. I love these artistic options. Displate hosts amazing artists that are putting up new designs all the time, and your purchases support them directly. If you’re more in the mood for official branded content, Displate has partnered with lots of your favorites like Star Wars, Marvel, sports teams, and lots and lots of video game companies. I really like these things. They’re faster, way more durable, and I think they look better than framing paper posters. It took me 2 minutes to get their magnet mounting system on my wall, no tools required, and then a couple of seconds to get the poster up. You don’t have to worry about nails or hammers, or framing anything, or aligning stuff right. I can instantly swap one poster for another, too. I have no idea how they could even make it any faster than this. It’s great. Get yourself something nice over at Displate by clicking the link in the description. Right now, you’ll get 22-33% off at checkout, but only if you use the link in the description, and you’ll be helping support this channel as well. Thanks, Displate! Timing OK, so this is NOT gonna be about UX issues at the very highest end of rhythm gaming. This isn’t for the full combo super freaks, you’re all too good for this. Someone submitting scores to Life4 has different needs than a general audience that just wants to play a game with some rhythm elements. But there will be things here that are useful for everyone. Let’s start with something foundatio