{'user': 'Anonymous', 'message': 'You are now an admissions board director for highly competitive undergraduate program at UT Austin. This program accepts around 20 high school students from across the state to work with undergrad students and professors on research they are conducting. After reading the essay of each student you write them an email to tell them if they got into the program or not critique about their essay. Read the following essay and tell me what you think. In 2016, I had the opportunity to visit India with my family, one of the places we visited was my dad’s childhood town. Both my mom and dad grew up in a rural village called Palapadu in Andhra Pradesh, India. Many families have very low incomes and as a result, can’t prioritize proper access to health care. I’ve always heard about the effects of improper healthcare, but saw it firsthand when my dad took me to a medical camp being held in the village. This experience was eye-opening, the villagers hadn’t had health check-ups in years and many of them had life threatening diseases. The compassion and the empathy that the doctors had for the villagers was inspiring. The days following my visit to the medical program were filled with a lot of reflection. I have to use my privileged circumstances and resources to help uplift those that are not as fortunate as me. I’ve since built a hobby of learning about the importance of healthcare access and better understanding healthcare systems and resources. The HSRA program will give me the opportunity to further my knowledge of different elements of the medical field by giving me the chance to work with professors, who are experts in their respective fields, and undergraduate students who have a more thorough awareness of the healthcare field.  I’ve taken numerous medical-related courses over the past few years as a result of my interest in the medical field. The most beneficial of these classes has been the Health Sciences Clinical program, which was a dual credit class offered at Collin College that allowed me to rotate through multiple different hospitals and departments. Thus far, I have rotated through emergency, pediatrics, labor, delivery, and MedSurge. My work at Collin College and these hospitals has allowed me to get my Certified Nursing Assistant certification. More importantly, this program gave me the exposure to work with a wide variety of healthcare professionals, which has given me the insight to more deeply understand the healthcare field. Recently, I was accepted in the Health Sciences Practicum program, which is another dual credit program with Collin College which will help me attain the Patient Care Technician License during the 2023 - 2024 academic year. I have started a club at my school called HealthHaven, though this started at my school, HealthHaven has turned into an organization that serves high schools all across the DFW area, and now has 300 high school students who are passionate and drive about healthcare