Based on the goals I have for my business, Create It, please help me break down 4 90-day blocks of smaller goals to accomplish.  Create It Company has one initial product, The Content Planner which launched at the end of Q4 in 2022. The planner is a physical content strategy planner. There is also a digital version (PDF) and Notion version. All three versions come with a BONUS training course on how to use the planner. Here are the goals for the next 12 months: - Scale the company to 1 Million in sales in 12 months time - Product plan: launch two new top-level products, under the company name, Create It. One will be a Course planner and the 2nd is yet to be decided. - Launch the continuity program, Content Snackz, in Q2 of 2023 - Hire, and train my tiny effective team for the company. These will be contractors and include a social media person, an additional writer, an implementor (business manager?). The company already has a designer, developer, and head of content. - Scale the email list and grow the newsletter, Creator's Weekly. The primary list should grow to 50k and Creator's Weekly should be at 20k. - Traffic: We've hired an ad agency and will begin running Facebook and Instagram ads the last week in March. The goal is to add YouTube, Google, and TikTok by years end. Grow the organic traffic through content, social, and email. - Launch and grow the affiliate program in April 2023. Based on the above goals, please create a plan to achieve this, using four 90-day blocks. Present the information in a table please.

Here's a breakdown of the four 90-day blocks with smaller goals to help you achieve your overall objectives for Create It Company: Please note that this table is a rough outline to help guide you through the process of achieving your goals over the next year. You may need to adjust the timeline and tasks depending on your progress and any unforeseen challenges that may arise.

That's a good start, thank you.  Can you break each block down into specific tasks? Example, in block 1, please give me the specific steps to take in order to launch the affiliate program.