Write a story about 5 high school girls that willing to create a school idol club and perform as school idols but their school administrator wont allow it and add tragedy that the main protagonist got an accident. after the incident the school administrator allows the future students to inspire not only to their schoolmates, but also to their community. write it in main protagonist view of point

Once upon a time, there were five high school girls who were passionate about music and dance. They had a dream of forming a school idol club, where they could perform and entertain their schoolmates. However, their school administrator was not in favor of the idea. Despite their persistent efforts, the administrator refused to allow them to create the club. I, the main protagonist, was the leader of the group. I was determined to make our dream a reality, and I didn't let the administrator's rejection discourage me. I rallied my friends and we continued to practice and perfect our performances. Tragically, one day I got into an accident. I was rushed to the hospital and my friends were devastated by the news. They visited me every day, bringing me flowers and cheering me up with stories of their practice sessions. The accident had a profound effect on our school administrator. He realized that life is short and that he should not stand in the way of our dream. He eventually changed his mind and allowed us to create the school idol club. We were overjoyed and immediately began preparing for our first performance. We worked tirelessly, rehearsing every day after school. Our hard work paid off, and our first performance was a huge success. The audience was wowed by our energy and passion, and we received a standing ovation. Our performances inspired not only our schoolmates but also our community. We performed at local events and charity functions, spreading joy and positivity wherever we went. I was proud of what we had achieved, and I knew that our dream had come true. The accident I went through made me realized that life is too short, and we should chase our dreams, no matter how difficult it may seem. And I'm glad that I got to inspire not only my schoolmates but also the community.

write all the name of the characters and their contribution to the group