Please make the following this to a dialogue for me as a chairman on the academic conference of public administration. I want to prepare for practicing [Approaches for Strengthening Human Security: A Case Study of Teachers in Selected Public Primary Schools in Three Southernmost  Provinces of Thailand Hasan Akrim Dongnadeng Abstract   Human security means freedom from threats and violence. It occurs when individuals meet their basic needs, live with dignity, and have opportunities to improve their self-potential. Thailand's three southernmost provinces have been facing human security issues, particularly with teachers, who are a vulnerable target. Hence, this study aimed to explore approaches for strengthening the human security of teachers in selected public primary schools in the three provinces. It used a multiple case study qualitative research approach with three selected schools in three provinces' districts with the highest number of incidents and two sample groups of 42 purposefully selected respondents in total: 30 teachers and 12 school executives. The study reveals approaches to strengthening human security in three key areas: working, life and property, and social culture and participation. In terms of human security in working, teachers are encouraged to demonstrate their ability to perform tasks by offering them forums for exchange in teaching and learning innovation, promoting them with collaborative networking and student academic competitions with appropriate compensation based on their performance, advancing teachers' potential by furthering higher education or career development based on their career needs, continuously monitoring the outcome of teacher development, promoting work advancement via academic team formation for academic positions, empowering and motivating their work via reduction of teaching workload, providing an opportunity to express opinions and engage in site visits with proper feedback, and a reward-giving appropriation. Additionally, human security in life and property necessitates the development of community cooperation and a reliable information dissemination network about the area's unrest situation to serve as a preventive shield against violence. Lastly, in terms of human security in social culture and participation, it can be promoted by providing teachers with personal time away from work and encouraging them to participate in and organize various cultural and traditional activities. Keywords: Strengthening, human security, teachers, southernmost provinces of Thailand]\u200b