{'user': 'Anonymous', 'message': 'Write a news release based on this content is ligtly refreshing way with a reading comprehsneis for a eight grader Talkers.com and Broadcast Interview Source have teamed to bring you RadioTour.com   Talkers is the leading news source for talk radio industry. Talkers defines the “Who’s Who” In talk radio with their Heavy Hundred roster. Broadcast Interview Source out 1984 as the Talk Show Guest Directory. Now with their ExpertClick press rooms and News Release connect journalists and interview sources --- PRweek called them “A Dating Service of PR” With a one-two punch you’ll get the attention of talk show producers, top journalists in all fields and great search engine optimization. You get these deliverables: Featured in Talkers newsletter to top management across the industry. A post card mailed to the top100 talk show hosts. Featured on the Talkers website in their hot guest section. You’ll get an ExpertClick press room where you can send news releases at no charge.  You’ll able to push your blogs in the ExpertClick engine You’ll ger premier ranking on the ExperClick site indexed on 39 topics of your chosing. We’ll get a featured profile on the ExpertRadio.com Sound Cloud website. We’ll write your press release for you, and make up a 6” x 11” post card to the top 100 talk shows. To ensure host have an easy way book you, we’ll set up a Calendly.com automated calendar system so show your open interview slots and instantly book you. You’ll get personal attention from Michell P. Davis the ExpertClick editor and his chief writer Brad Buter. With a two-week lead time you can have success. Cost is $5,000. Contact Mitchell P. Davis at Broadcast Interview source to lock in your exclusive window –we only accept one guest a week, so we can give your cause the attention you deserve. Cost is ????. Call Mr. Davis today at (202) 333-5000 or email:'}
{'user': 'Chat GPT', 'message': 'Headline: Talkers.com and Broadcast Interview Source Join Forces to Launch RadioTour.com: Your Ticket to Talk Radio Stardom! Subhead: Get ready to shine in the talk radio world with this unbeatable partnership! Imagine being a guest on your favorite talk radio show, sharing your expertise and captivating listeners everywhere! Thanks to a fantastic collaboration between Talkers.com and Broadcast Interview Source, that dream can become a reality with RadioTour.com! If you haven\'t heard of Talkers.com, they\'re the go-to news source for the talk radio industry. They even create the Heavy Hundred roster, which is like a list of the coolest and most influential people in talk radio. Broadcast Interview Source has been around since 1984, and they\'re experts at connecting journalists and interview sources, so it\'s like a match made in heaven! So, what do you get when you sign up with RadioTour.com? You\'ll be featured in Talkers\' newsletter, sent to top management in the industry, and get a special postcard mailed to the top 100 talk show hosts. Plus