provide a complete plan with code for makeing DF-GAN from scratch on CUB-101 birds dataset with arabic captions: use this as guide : AraBERT [15] has applied and shown a potential result in eleven natural language understandings. As shown in Fig. 1, we utilize AraBERT as a powerful architecture, which is pre-trained on billion of Arabic words, to produce sentence embedding of each text description without having to learn. We reduce the dimension of the sentence vector to achieve consistency with its input shape by training a fully connected layer to both generator and discriminator on DF-GAN. Mean- while, unlike the previous architectures [4,7,9], DF-GAN succeeds to synthesize high-resolution text-matching and realistic images given text descriptions with just one pair of a discriminator and generator. As we mentioned previously, the generator has two inputs, the noise vector, and the sentence vector. Furthermore, The dimension of the sentence vector is reduced into the generator by adding a fully connected layer. In addition, this fully connected layer is trained inside the architecture in a weakly supervised way, which means the parameter of the layer is updated during the back-propagation phase. Hence, As shown in Fig. 1, we inject the reduced sentence vector on overall UPBlocks. The UPBlock is composed of Upsample and two DFBlock. The DFBlock consists of a series of Affine Transformations, ReLu Activation, Affine Transformation, another ReLu Activation, and a Convolution Layer. We clearly present in Fig. 2 the process of fusing sentence vector and image features in DFBlock. In addition, the Affine Transformation process is detailed in DF-GAN section. Furthermore, the reduced sentence vector is concatenated with image features into DownBlock in order to com- pute adversarial loss and evaluate the visual and semantic consistency of inputs. Our architecture demonstrates the capability to generate high-resolution, text-matching, and realistic images given Arabic text descriptions.