how to plot correlation heatmap in python with categorical variable and continuous variable

To plot a correlation heatmap in Python with both categorical and continuous variables, you can use the  seaborn  library, which provides a function called  heatmap() . Here is an example code snippet that demonstrates how to do this: In this example,  my_data.csv  contains the data you want to plot. The  corr()  method is used to calculate the correlation matrix, which is then passed to the  heatmap()  function. The  cmap  parameter specifies the color map to use for the heatmap, and the  annot  parameter adds numerical annotations to the heatmap cells. Note that the  corr()  method only works with continuous variables, so if you have categorical variables you want to include in the heatmap, you may need to convert them to numerical values first. One way to do this is to use the  LabelEncoder  class from the  sklearn  library.

How to use the Label Encoding from sklearn library

The Label Encoding technique from the scikit-learn (sklearn) library is used to convert categorical variables into numerical values. This technique is useful when you want to apply machine learning algorithms to datasets containing categorical data. Here's an example code snippet that demonstrates how to use the LabelEncoder from the sklearn library: In this example, we first create a sample dataset containing two categorical variables:  color  and  size . We then create an instance of the  LabelEncoder  class and use it to encode each categorical variable as a numerical value. The resulting encoded variables are stored as new columns in the original dataset. The output of the code will show the original dataset with the new encoded columns. Note that the  fit_transform()  method of the LabelEncoder class is used to encode the variables. The  fit()  method is used to fit the encoder to the data, and the  transform()  method is used to transform the categorical variables into numerical values based on the fitted encoder. In the example, we use the  fit_transform()  method to fit the encoder and transform the data in one step.

C:\\Users\\vijay\\AppData\\Local\\Temp\\ipykernel_12000\\1038715227.py:2: FutureWarning: The default value of numeric_only in DataFrame.corr is deprecated. In a future version, it will default to False. Select only valid columns or specify the value of numeric_only to silence this warning.  corr_matrix = df_filtered.corr()