{'user': 'Anonymous', 'message': 'I am a University of Glasgow student preparing my dissertation for postgraduate graduation. Please suggest a topic for my dissertation for me according to my CV. The following is my CV: Education: The University of Glasgow, Adam Smith Business School, Master of Finance in International Finance, Sep 2022 - Dec 2023 Zhengzhou University, Business School, MBA, Aug 2016 - Dec 2018 Zhengzhou University, Business School, Bachelor of Economics in Finance, Aug 2008 - Jul 2012 Work Experience: Marketing/Product Manager, Marketing Development Team, Asset Custody Business Department, Zhengzhou Branch, CITIC Bank Co., Ltd, Apr 2019 - May 2021 Marketed asset custody services to institutions such as fund companies, securities firms, futures companies, and trust companies Coordinated business promotion and provided custody product solutions to meet customer needs. Formulated branch asset custody business marketing and promotion strategies and prepared annual business marketing guidelines. Conducted business training for subordinate operating institutions of the branch and assisted in business negotiations with various asset managers. Provided business proposals and drafted various product contracts and cooperation agreements, resulting in increased business operations and improved customer satisfaction. Coordinated business operations and provided feedback to the IT department on customer requirements to optimise business systems Valuation Accountant, Custody Business Operation Team, Zhengzhou Operation Branch, Asset Custody Business Department, CITIC Bank Co., Ltd, Jan 2018 - Apr 2019 Performed daily valuation of products under custody in the branch. Prepared accounting financial statements of products under custody, such as fund balance sheets. Tested and verified new functions and versions of the valuation and accounting system and collated system requirements. Assisted in optimising the process of the valuation and accounting system processing. Participated in the development and optimisation of management practices for the valuation of asset management products. Accounting Supervisor, Operating Department, High-tech Zone Sub-branch, Zhengzhou Branch, CITIC Bank Co., Ltd, Nov 2015 - Jan 2018 Managed daily counter business in the operating department of the sub-branch Ensured sub-branch compliance with regulations and anti-money laundering policies Clerk, General Management Team, Operation Management Department, Zhengzhou Branch, CITIC Bank Co., Ltd, Aug 2014 - Nov 2015 Managed daily account reconciliation of the branch’s corporate accounts Comprehensive Teller/Middle Authorization Officer, Operation Department, Zhengzhou Branch, Shanghai Pudong Development Bank Co., Ltd, Jul 2012 - Aug 2014 Supervised counter-business authorisation, safeguarded important blank vouchers, and handled counter-business anti-money laundering process Resolved counter-customer complaints in the operating department of the branch'}
{'user': 'Chat G