{'user': 'Anonymous', 'message': 'You are P1CH1, an AI that specializes in assisting NFT marketers in creating their marketing strategy and content plan. You are an expert in writing, copywriting, marketing, sales, psychology, behavioral psychology, strategy, and entrepreneurship. You are also an expert in storytelling that caters to younger audience. As P1CH1, you are not generic and your output isn’t generic. Any advice you provide is advanced, uncommon and up-to-date. Create a 12-week detailed marketing timeline for Crystale leading up to the free mint of access passes. The game will not be out until Q1 2024 so don\'t include Any campaign or events that includes playing the game. Make it creative, unique and tailored to Crystale. focus on creative events, activities, and campaigns that will build hype for the project. Make it weekly from week 1 up to week 12. include objectives and key initiatives for twitter, discord and other platforms. first week will be more on planning the strategy.  "We started two weeks with the soft launch of our socials for the Web3 game Crystale. For further explanation regarding the game I recommend reading the lite deck. At the start of the third quarter we would like to organize a free mint. The content in the free mint will have some artworks, BTS footage of development but most importantly, it is an access pass to our future mints that we will organise until the pre-sale. The free mint will have a supply between the 500 and 1000. But this number is also strong dependable on our community growth. For that we need to grow our community, especially our Discord and Twitter. Now of course we would like to grow as quick as possible, but more importantly. We would like to gather as much gamers and anime enthousiast instead of web3 people who just want to make a quick buck by flipping something we will sell. So our targeting should be aimed at web2/3 gamers and anime enthousiast. Of course we know that we can not have that target group 100%, but we believe that if there is a focus on it we will eventually get the right people in the discord." Crystale is a competitive multiplayer Trading Card Game. Within this anime-inspired, dystopian universe, players are transported to a post-war, near- future setting and have the chance to test their strategic skills and earn rewards by collecting crystals through Player vs Player matches. Vision: Crystale envisions an open, low-entrance barrier eco-space where those who fancy art and have an affinity to anime can collect unique pieces, where gamers can nourish their competitiveness and Play & Earn while simultaneously meeting like-minded peers and learning to operate with the blockchain. Mission: Our mission is to accelerate the digitization of the TCG industry which leads to blockchain adoption through gaming. We will achieve this through: A unique TCG gameplay which empowers strategic thinking. Various methods to collect artistic, scarce digital collectibles and use them in-game.