{'user': 'Anonymous', 'message': 'SUmmarize and or improve this as best possible. As if you were in an Ivy league university. Summary: This memo explains the legal implications by the Securities Exchange Commission’s enforcement against Ripple Labs for failure to register security, for the regulation of digital assets. Specifically, this memo examines whether the action is justified under Chevron, where the Supreme Court held that federal courts should defer to a federal agency’s construction of a statute that Congress directed the agency to administer.    This memo concludes that the SEC’s action against Ripple Labs is justified under the Chevron doctrine, given the SEC is acted pursuant to its statutory authority. When Congress enacted the Securities act to regulate the offer and sale of securities, Congress enacted a regime of requirements, for companies (issuers of securities) and its control persons involved in the offer and selling of securities. The SEC uses the Howey test as a standard for determining whether an asset is deemed an “investment Contract” and thus a security, falling under the SEC’s jurisdiction. Here the SEC, in bringing this action against Ripple Labs, is acting pursuant to the authority granted by the statute and through a report which advised those who would use distributed ledger enabled means for capital raising to take appropriate steps to ensure compliance with federal securities law with a framework for digital assets. This is justified given that its considered an interpretive rule, and would fall under one of the exemptions under APA §533 (b).  Background:    On, December 22, 2020 the SEC brought a suit against Ripple Labs for violations of Section 5(a) and 5(c) of the Securities Act of 1933 by engaging in the unlawful offer and sale of unregistered securities. Around 2011 or early 2012, defendants coded the XRP Ledger, a digital asset that can be issued or transferred by using a distributed ledger. After the creation of the digital assets, the development team transferred a substantial amount of XRP to defendants as compensation. The SEC alleges that from 2013 to the present, the defendants offered or sold a portion of their individual holdings to the public. The SEC claims that XRP is an investment contract, and therefore a security. Therefore, the SEC claims that defendant’s violated Section 5 by offering and selling XRP into the public market without first registering those offers and sales, and that they aided and abetted Ripple’s violations as well. However, defendant’s claim that they did not receive fair notice that XRP was a security. The analysis here, will revolve around the SEC’s action of bringing this suit and its impact on the regulatory landscape for digital assets.    Analysis: I.\tThe SEC’s action of bringing a suit against Ripple Labs for violation of Section 5(a) and 5(c) of the Securities Act is justified under the Chevron Doctrine The SEC’s action of bringing a suit against Ripple Labs for fa