I accidentally changed some files in my Nextcloud instance. (I removed location data from some photos). I need to change them back to an earlier version. I have the list of the files. It's about 100 files. I don't want to use the UI to change photo by photo, as that would take far too long and would be error-prone? Is there some other way? It's okay to use the API also and run some program.

Yes, you can use the Nextcloud API to revert the files to an earlier version. To do this, you can write a simple script using a programming language like Python. The script will utilize the Nextcloud WebDAV API to revert the files to their previous versions. Here's a Python script using the  requests  library that demonstrates how to revert multiple files to an earlier version using the Nextcloud API:

I'm not so familiar with python, please write a NodeJS application instead.

Sure, here's a Node.js script using the  axios  library to revert multiple files to an earlier version using the Nextcloud API:

Please use got instead of axios

Certainly! Here's the Node.js script using the  got  library to revert multiple files to an earlier version using the Nextcloud API:

It looks like the script should continue somehow?

Apologies for the incomplete script. Here's the complete script using the  got  library:

Please continue the script. No need to start from the beginning again, I can combine the result myself.

Sure, continuing from where we left off: This part of the script continues from the previous sections and completes the  revertFile  function. It then defines a  revertAllFiles  function that iterates through the  filesToRevert  list and calls the  revertFile  function for each file. Finally, it calls the  revertAllFiles  function to start the process.

Look, I found this information about how to revert files in nextcloud: Versions\uf0c1 Nextcloud makes the versions of files available via the webdav endpoint. Listing the versions of a file\uf0c1 To obtain all the version of a file a normal PROPFIND has to be send to https://cloud.example.com/remote.php/dav/versions/USER/versions/FILEID. This will list the versions for this file. The name is the timestamp of the version. Restoring a version\uf0c1 To restore a version all that needs to be done is to move a version the special restore folder at https://cloud.example.com/remote.php/dav/versions/USER/restore Are you sure your code is already correct?