The beauties of Goldsmith: or The moral and sentimental treasury of genius. [Three lines from Goldsmith's Citizen of the world]


THE BEAUTIES OF GOLDSMITH: OR THE MORAL AND SENTIMENTAL TREASURY OF GENIUS.
The Volume of Nature is the Book of Knowledge, and he becomes most wise who makes the most judicious selection.
Citizen of the World.PHILADELPHIA: PRINTED BY FRANCIS BAILEY, AT YORICK'S-HEAD, NO. 116, HIGH-STREET. M,DCC,XCVII.
PREFACE.IT is merely in compliance with custom I sit down to write a Preface. Dr. Goldsmith's writings need not an eulogium at this hour: they may be compared to the invaluable paintings of Raphael; the longer they are in the world, their estimation becomes more extensive. Time has drawn the veil of ob|livion over the works of many writers, once renowned (if we may credit tradition) for every perfection that captivates. Nature was certainly wanting to enrich those com|positions. What she has had a hand in, Time reverences, and a final dissolution can only destroy. How happy, then, must the hallowed spirit of Goldsmith be, whose Beau|ties wear the simple brilliancy of Nature,

and all the decorative charms of Fancy! whose praise is the theme of the ingenious, from the Capital of Taste and Patronage, to the cottage of learned tranquillity, and which Time will for ever regard with pa|rental affection!
The Pictures I have given from his Poems, are the highest finished in the group; and the whole selection will be found, it is hoped, meriting the attention and patronage of the refined lovers of ele|gant and estimable literature.
W. H.THE LIFE OF OLIVER GOLDSMITH, M. B.FAME, the only inflexible friend of Genius, has been singularly kind to the Author whose life I with much pleasure sit down to give some ac|count of. She has sounded the praises of her favourite to the extremities of taste and literary refinement. The Court and the Cottage share with equal felicity the invaluable fruits of his elegant studies! The smallest memorial is a beacon for the incautious heart of virtue and simplicity, or a balm for the wounded soul of the comfortless! Hence the lovers of human excellence have been sedulous in establishing our writer's reputation on the basis of immortality.
Goldsmith's biographers have been many; their opinions, in some measure, different; but they all agree that he was a man of elevated genius, unbounded philanthropy, and possessing the milk

of human kindness in a supereminent degree. I have their several accounts before me; and, upon an impartial survey, Dr. Glover's stands highest in my estimation. He was Goldsmith's intimate friend, a companion in many of his literary pursuits, and his enthusiastic admirer! What such a writer says, as far as relates to facts, must be listened to with more pleasure than a mere work of fiction, however elaborate, or splendidly set off. It gives me pleasure to acknowledge the obligations I lie under to this ingenious and excellent companion, for many particulars relative to Dr. Goldsmi