rose for the purpose of calling their lordships' attention to the documents, which lay upon the table, and had been produced in consequence of a motion made on a former day by his noble friend (the earl of Moira, ) whose absence he regretted upon this occasion.
The documents which had been produced as a ground for issuing the Circular Letter to the sheriffs and chief magistrates of the principal towns throughout Ireland, *
felt it to be his duty to oppose the present motion, because no sufficient grounds bad been laid for agreeing to it; and because the information already on the table was sufficient to answer the object of the motion made by a noble lord the oilier night.
That noble lord's motion was confined to the production of a single document, and the letter of Mr. Hay was produced in consequence of a motion of his own.
He felt much difficulty at the present moment in giving farther information: but he had given their lord ships a positive record, which proved the deliberate attempt at the violation of law, and was inconsistent with a due regard to the public tranquillity.
He had been mistaken when it was supposed to have been, said by him, that the body of the Catholics meditated a systematic violation.
He meant no such thing against that numerous and respectable body; and he was sure that the measures intended to be prevented, were as much against the sense of the most respectable part of the body of the Catholics, as they were against that of the Protestants, and that they deprecated the adoption of them equally.
He believed, in his conscience, that the majority of the Catholic body were loyal and well affected to the connection with England; and that they did not desire to be represented in the way proposed by a few of their number.
As to the case of the present committee sitting in Dublin, being also a violation of the law, he would not enter into the question, whether it had been wise or not, to allow that body to continue their sitting as they had hitherto done; but whether this were wise or unwise, he could not be persuaded, that it would have been wise to overlook the attempt to carry such a meeting to the great and undefined extent proposed, and to suffer it to assume, as it necessarily would, an intirely new character.
Were his opinions decidedly favourable to the total removal of the remaining disabilities to which the Catholics were subject, he should still entertain his present sentiments on this particular subject.
Indeed, there was no greater grievance for the Catholics, than the existence of such a body professing to be the representatives of all the Catholics.
There had been no attempt whatever intended or made to prevent the right of petitioning, according to the forms of the constitution: but the very usage of their lordships' House forbad the receiving of petitions except from individuals subscribing for themselves, or from bodies, which had a legal, corporate existence.
An instance of this sort had even recently, occur