An inquiry concerning the state of the unregenerate under the Gospel; whether, on every rising degree of internal light, conviction and amendment of life, they are (while unregenerate) undoubtedly, on the whole, more vile, odious and abominable (in God's sight) than they would have been had they continued secure and at ease, going on in their sins, under the same external means of light: : Containing remarks on the tenth section of the Rev'd Mr. Samuel Hopkins's late answer to Doctor Mayhew's sermon on striving to enter in at the strait gate; intitled "A brief inquiry into the use of means." / By Jedidiah Mills, Minister of the Gospel in Ripton, Stratford.


AN INQUIRY CONCERNING The State of the Unregenerate under the Gospel.
AN INQUIRY CONCERNING The State of the Unregenerate under the Gospel; Whether, on every rising Degree of internal Light, Conviction and Amendment of Life, they are (while unregenerate) undoubtedly, on the whole, more vile, odious and abominable (in GOD's Sight) than, they would have been had they continued secure and at Ease, going on in their Sins, under the same exter|nal Means of Light:
CONTAINING REMARKS On the Tenth Section of the Rev'd Mr. SAMUEL HOPKINS's late ANSWER to Doctor MAYHEW's Sermon on Striving to enter in at the strait Gate; INTITLED "A brief Inquiry into the Use of Means."
By Jedidiah Mills, Minister of the Gospel in Ripton, STRATFORD.
NEW-HAVEN: Printed by B. MECOM. 1767.
THE PREFACE.IT has long since been observed that error is wont to be found in the extreams; as in all the com|mon affairs of life, so in matters of religion.
Thus while some have made too light of original sin, as tho' mankind by it were merely sufferers, as chil|dren when born poor, by the parents having spent his substance. Others, to avoid that extream, have made too much of it, as tho' mankind, by it, were become utterly uncapable of any kind of goodness in any sense, even of the lowest sort, called by the name of negative or comparative goodness, a being on the whole less wicked by any reformations and amendments, possible while unregenerate.
So while some have maintained the doctrine of gene|ral redemption, in its utmost extent, that Christ died for all men alike, as much in all respects for Judas as for Peter. Others, to avoid that extream, deny his death to have any res;pect at all but to the elect only.
Again, while some maintain that the good works of the saints are the matter of their justification before God; others, to avoid that extream, make no account at all of good works, neither bold themselves obliged to make the law the rule of life.
So, while some have carried a common work of the spirit, ordinarily preparatory to that which is saving, where a saving work is wrought, too high, bordering on the fruits of a regenerating charge, or have been

too particular and exact in describing the parts of it; others, to avoid that extream, have intirely discarded any common work of the spirit at all, on the unrege|nerate, some per