In asking your Lordships to read this Bill a second time, I may explain that its object is to amend an Act of last Session which had for its object the exemption of certain Friendly Societies from the requirements and provisions of the 30th section of the old Friendly Societies Act of 1875.
There are certain classes of Friendly Societies which exist for the mutual benefit of their members which ought not to be subjected to the provisions of that section, but owing to the defective drafting of the measure of last Session, some doubts have arisen with regard to its bearing on those societies.
The present Bill will, I believe, cure that difficulty, and will enable the Registrar of Friendly Societies if he thinks fit, under the direction of the Treasury, to grant certificates of exemption.
The Bill has passed through the House of Commons, and I believe has the sanction and approval of Her Majesty's Government.
I have no objection to the Second Reading of this Bill, but I must protest against its form of unexplained reference to previous Acts, owing to the circumstances which make it necessary.
It is a Bill to amend a Bill which was passed last Session, having been run through all its stages on the last night of the Session, and so that it was practically impossible for noble Lords to know what its provisions were.
It can only now be understood by reference first to the Act of 1888, and from that to the Act of 1875, which imposes restrictions on arbitration from which this Bill would free some societies.
In moving the Second Reading of this Bill, I may explain that by the Passengers Act of 1855, the Governor of a colony or British Consul was authorized to defray the expenses of any passenger of a disabled or abandoned passenger ship who had been picked up at sea, and by the later Act of 1863 those powers were extended to cases of passengers of passenger ships who found themselves through no neglect or fault of their own in some colony or foreign port.
But certain restrictions were imposed by those Acts.
They only applied to passenger ships carrying a certain number of passengers and also proceeding on certain specified voyages.
It has been found inconvenient that those restrictions should be left in force.
They have given rise to certain anomalous cases, and therefore it is proposed, with the assent of the Board of Trade, that those restrictions should be removed.
The Bill is a short Bill for that purpose, and I have to ask your Lordships to give it a Second Reading.
* , in rising to ask whether the attention of the Local Government Board has been directed to the prevailing suffering of the children at the Central London District Schools at Hanwell from ophthalmia; whether any remonstrances and directions have been addressed to the managers and other officials of the said schools, and with what result, said that, if his information were correct, something like one-third of 1, 200 children now in these schools were suffering from this disease, and that