4
CLMET3_1_1_4.txt
1710-1780
1725-1749
1730s
1735
Treatise
treat
A defence of free-thinking in mathematics
Berkeley, George
M
1685

http://ota.ahds.ac.uk/text/4919.html
25-09-2012



A defence of free-thinking in mathematics : In answer to a pamphlet of Philalethes Cantabrigiensis , intituled , Geometry no friend to infidelity , or a defence of Sir Isaac Newton , and the British mathematicians .
Also an appendix concerning Mr. Walton 's Vindication of the principles of fluxions ... By the author of The minute philosopher .



A DEFENCE OF Free-Thinking IN MATHEMATICS .


In Answer To a Pamphlet of Philalethes Cantabrigiensis , intituled , Geometry no Friend to Infidelity , or a Defence of Sir ISAAC NEWTON , and the BRITISH Mathematicians .
Also an Appendix concerning Mr. WALTON 'S Vindication of the Principles of Fluxions against the Objections contained in the ANALYST .


WHEREIN It is attempted to put this Controversy in such a Light as that every Reader may be able to judge thereof .


By the Author of The Minute Philosopher . '
- Veritas odium parit .
Ter . ' '
[ ... ] .
Aristot .
Metaph .
l. xiij . '


LONDON : Printed for J. TONSON .
MDCCXXXV .
 A DEFENCE OF FREE-THINKING IN MATHEMATICS , &c..


I .
WHEN I read your Defence of the British Mathematicians , I could not , Sir , but admire your Courage in asserting with such undoubting Assurance things so easily disproved .
This to me seemed unaccountable , till I reflected on what you say ( p. 32 . )
when upon my having appealed to every thinking Reader , whether it be possible to frame any clear Conception of Fluxions , you express yourself in the following manner , `` Pray , Sir , who are those thinking Readers you appeal  to ?
Are they Geometricians , or Persons wholly ignorant of Geometry ?
If the former , I leave it to them : If the latter , I ask how well are they qualified to judge of the Method of Fluxions '' ?
It must be acknowledged you seem by this Dilemma secure in the favour of one Part of your Readers , and the ignorance of the other .
I am nevertheless persuaded there are fair and candid Men among the Mathematicians .
And for those who are not Mathematicians , I shall endeavour so to unveil this Mystery , and put the Controversy between us in such a Light , as that every Reader of ordinary Sense and Reflection may be a competent Judge thereof .


II .
`` YOU express an extreme Surprize and Concern , that I should take so much Pains to depreciate one of the noblest Sciences , to disparage and traduce a Set of learned Men , whose Labours so greatly conduce to the Honour of this Island , ( p. 5 . )
to lessen the Reputation and Authority of Sir Isaac Newton and his Followers , by shewing that they are not such Masters of Reason as they are generally presumed to be ; and to depreciate the Science they profess , by demonstrating to the World , that it  is not of the Clearness and Certainty as is commonly imagined .
All which , you insist , appears very strange to you and the rest of t