A sermon, preached at Stoneham, on Lord's Day, October 26, 1794. Occasioned by the dismission of the minister from his people in that town. / By John Cleaveland, Jun. V.D.M. and late Pastor of the church in Stoneham. ; Published by desire.


A SERMON, PREACHED AT STONEHAM, ON LORD's DAY, OCTOBER 26, 1794. OCCASIONED BY THE DISMISSION OF THE MINISTER FROM HIS PEOPLE IN THAT TOWN.
BY JOHN CLEAVELAND, JUN. V. D. M. AND LATE PASTOR OF THE CHURCH IN STONEHAM.
Published by Desire.
THOMAS C. CUSHING. Essex-Street, SALEM MDCCXCV.
HEBREWS XIII.17.FOR THEY WATCH FOR YOUR SOULS, AS THEY THAT MUST GIVE ACCOUNT.
THE Author of this epistle, in his conclusion, ex|horts the Hebrews to several christian duties; and in this verse, of which our text is a part, to obey them that have the rule over them, and submit themselves. By those who had the rule over them, the Apostle means those who were Pastors of the Church; being appointed overseers by the Holy Ghost, to lead the people in their public devotions; explain the word of God to them; to speak, exhort, and rebuke, with all authority; and to administer to the Church the seals of the covenant.
Gospel Ministers are stewards of the mysteries of God; and when they faithfully perform their work, obedience and submission are due to them from those whom they are set over. People are bound to obey the truths preached by the Ministers of Jesus Christ, and submit to their instructions and leading, as far as they are agreeable to the divine rule: for Ministers have their commission and authority from the King of Heaven; hence disobe|dience to them is disobedience to Christ. A reason why people should obey them who have the rule over them is given in the words of our text, "For they watch for your souls, as they that must give account." Your souls

are near their hearts, and they have critical and painful work to do for them; to watch for their salvation, and carefully avoid every thing in their ministerial work which will hinder it. And this they do as knowing they must hereafter give account to him, who put them into the ministry, of all their conduct as Ministers of the Gos|pel, and what attention they have paid to your souls. Seeing then they have such a solemn charge over you, and account to give, it becomes you to obey them, and submit yourselves, lest their account finally prove un|profitable for you, which will be the case if they have to give up their account with grief for your disobedience to the gospel which they preached to you.
From the words of our text we may note this doc|trine, viz.
That Ministers of the Gospel must give account how they watch for souls.
The following remarks may illustrate the doctrine.
I. The trust committed to Ministers is very precious. It consists in the souls of men; those rational capacities which render men subjects of moral government; with which they may serve and enjoy God forever. But the souls of men, which are by nature sinful and exposed to eternal punishment, may be saved by