An oration, in celebration of American independence; delivered at Belcherstown, July 4th, 1797. / By Samuel F. Dickinson, A.B. student at law, Amherst. ; [Four lines of quotations]


AN ORATION.
AN ORATION, IN CELEBRATION OF AMERICAN INDEPENDENCE; DELIVERED AT BELCHERSTOWN, JULY 4th 1797.
BY SAMUEL F. DICKINSON, A. B. STUDENT AT LAW, AMHERST.
"For the kingdom is the Lord's; and he is the Governor among the nations."
"Render, therefore, unto Caesar, the things which are Cae|sar's; and unto God, the things which are God's."
PRINTED AT NORTHAMPTON, (MASSACHUSETTS) BY WILLIAM BUTLER. M, DCC, XC, VII.
ORATION. THE CONNECTION OF CIVIL GOVERNMENT WITH MANNERS AND TASTE.EVERY thing, which respects the hap|piness of human society, is interesting. The pro|gress of reason and taste, the various changes in civil government, considered in relation to this, are not more pleasing to the curious, than important in the science of humanity. To inquire minutely into the causes, which, from its institution, have contin|ually varied the face of society, would be a task too arduous to engage. These afford ample materials for historical researches, and philosophic investigation. You will not expect the speaker of the day to enter a field so large, or to invite your attention to so copi|ous a subject. It is my design to shew the connection of civil government with manners and taste. And here, the inexperience of youth, attended with a debility of body, would ask the benevolence of my Fathers and Fellow-countrymen.
THERE is a fitness in all the economy of nature. It extends through the different orders of creation, from the most exalted intelligence, down to the mean|est

reptile that creeps in the dust. This is called, The fitness of things. We discover it, not only in the laws of the material system, the growth of veg|itables, and the life of brutes; but, in the oppera|tions of the human mind. These are grounds for rational inquiry. Moral causes control all natural ef|fects. And their influence, in society, depends on principles as firmly established, as the constitution of things. The laws, therefore, which regulate the change in civil government and manners, are as fix|ed and as certain, as those, which regulate the revo|lutions of nature.
WHEN we compare the rudeness of ancient times with the refinement of the present age, a field is open for candid investigation. How one generation may become wise, by the wisdom of a former, is easy to determine. But, how the whole group of human beings should emerge from native ignorance, and rise to elegance in taste, is a problem harder to solve. This, however, may be generally ascribed, to the natural growth and improvement of the intellectual powers; and, particularly, to the aids of civil gov|ernment. This is the guardian of human rights. Laws are grafted on the peculiar nature of those, over whom they are exercised. Hence, according to the original constitution of society, they are con|nected with manners and taste. This con