141
CLMET3_1_2_141.txt
1780-1850
1825-1849
1830s
1833
Treatise
treat
The philosophy of the moral feelings
Abercrombie, John
M
1780

http://www.gutenberg.org/files/22364/22364-h/22364-h.htm
01-02-2013



PRELIMINARY OBSERVATIONS .


SECT .
I .


NATURE AND IMPORTANCE OF THE SCIENCE OF THE MORAL FEELINGS .


Man is to be contemplated as an intellectual , and as a moral being .
By his intellectual powers , he acquires the knowledge of facts , observes their connexions , and traces the conclusions which arise out of them .
These mental operations , however , even in a high state of cultivation , may be directed entirely to truths of an extrinsic kind , - that is , to such as do not exert any influence either on the moral condition of the individual , or on his relations to other sentient beings .
They may exist in an eminent degree in the man who lives only for himself , and feels little beyond the personal [ Pg 2 ] wants , or the selfish enjoyments of the hour that is passing over him .


But , when we contemplate man as a moral being , new relations open on our view , and these are of mightier import .
We find him occupying a place in a great system of moral government , in which he has an important station to fill and high duties to perform .
We find him placed in certain relations to a great moral Governor , who presides over this system of things , and to a future state of being for which the present scene is intended to prepare him .
We find him possessed of powers which qualify him to feel these relations , and of principles calculated to guide him through the solemn responsibilities which attend his state of moral discipline .


These two parts of his mental constitution we perceive to be remarkably distinct from each other .
The former may be in vigorous exercise in him who has little feeling of his moral condition , - and the latter may be in a high state of culture in the man , who , in point of intellectual acquirement , knows little beyond the truths which it most concerns him to know , - those great but [ Pg 3 ] simple principles which guide his conduct as a responsible being .


In a well-regulated mind , there is an intimate harmony and co-operation between these two departments of the mental economy .
Knowledge , received through the powers of sensation and simple intellect , whether relating to external things , or to mental phenomena , - and conclusions derived from these through the powers of reasoning , ought all to contribute to that which is the highest state of man , - his purity as a moral being .
They ought all to lend their aid towards the cultivation of those principles of his nature which bind him to his fellow-men ; - and those higher principles still , which raise his feeble powers to the Eternal Incomprehensible One , the first great cause of all things , and the moral Governor of the universe .


A slight degree of observation is sufficient to convince us , that such a regulated condition of the mental constitution do