said, with reference to a notice of motion, given by a noble Marquess (Westmeath) for a select committee, to inquire into matters relating to the Poor-law Act in Ireland, which stood for Thursday next, that it would be impossible for Mr. Nicholls and other Gentlemen connected with the introduction of that measure into Ireland, whose conduct might perhaps be impugned, to appear at so short a notice.
He would put it to the noble Marquess himself, whether he would feel justified in moving for a select committee, on so short a notice, of which he was not himself aware until he saw it on the paper.
He hoped the noble Marquess would not persevere in his intention at that late period of the Session.
, upon looking to the order book, saw no other open day but that which he had selected until Friday week.
In the present state of the Session he hoped the noble Marquess would not ask him to put off his motion till the arrival of Mr. Nicholls.
The question was one of pressing importance, and if he consented so to postpone his motion it would be thrown over for the present Session.
He hoped that the Irish Poor Law would not be allowed to remain in its present state during the ensuing recess.
That law had been basely and wickedly perverted to party purposes in Ireland, and the proceedings which had taken place under it ought to be investigated.
He trusted, therefore, that the noble Marquess would allow him to proceed with his motion on Thursday.
He had received many communications on the subject, urging him strongly not to postpone his motion.
said, the more convenient course would be for the noble Marquess to take an open day for stating any general objections which he might entertain against this measure.
It ought to be recollected, when they were called on to consider this subject, that Mr. Nicholls had a very difficult and delicate task to perform, and that his efforts were likely to be checked and discouraged by such a proceeding as the noble Marquess contemplated.
All, however, that he required, on the part of Mr. Nicholls was, that fair time should be given for the production of full information on all matters connected with his proceedings.
was not aware, whether the noble Marquess near him meant to impugn the conduct of Mr. Nicholls as wrong, or whether his object was to shew that the Poor-law itself was bad?
If the latter, there was nothing to prevent him from bringing in a bill to amend the law; and, on the second reading, he might go into the whole subject.
There was a very great difference between bringing charges against individuals, and introducing a bill to amend or to repeal another measure.
, if he was sure of carrying a bill through that House, and more particularly through the House of Commons, for altering the Irish Poor-law, would most certainly propose it at once.
But he did not flatter himself with any such assurance.
His idea at present, therefore, was, that a committee should be appointed to consider the question, and, if the noble Ma