The duty of ministers of the Gospel to preach the truth; illustrated in a sermon: delivered at the ordination of the Rev. Edward Dorr Griffin, A.M. to the pastoral charge of the Church of Christ in New-Hartford. : June 4th, A.D. 1795. / By Jonathan Edwards, D.D.


THE DUTY OF MINISTERS OF THE GOSPEL TO PREACH THE TRUTH; ILLUSTRATED IN A SERMON: DELIVERED AT THE ORDINATION OF THE REV. EDWARD DORR GRIFFIN, A. M. TO THE PASTORAL CHARGE OF THE CHURCH OF CHRIST IN NEW-HARTFORD. JUNE 4th, A. D. 1795.
BY JONATHAN EDWARDS, D. D.
HARTFORD: PRINTED BY HUDSON AND GOODWIN. 1795.
An Ordination Sermon.JOHN xviii. 37.To this end was I born, and for this cause came I into the world, that I should bear witness unto the truth.
THESE are the words of our blessed Saviour. In them he informs us, that one end of his incarnation and ministry was, that by bearing wit|ness to the truth, he might communicate the knowledge of it. The same is doubtless the end of the ordinary ministry of the gospel, and should be the object aimed at by every Minister. From our text therefore I deduce this doctrine.
The great duty of the Ministers of the Gospel is, to preach the truth.
Under this doctrine I purpose,
I. To show what truth ministers of the gos|pel ought to preach.
II. To mention some reasons in confirmation of the doctrine.
I. I am to show what truth a minister of the gospel ought to preach. Truth is very extensive and of various kinds. There is truth in every science, in mathematics, philosophy, history, &c. It will not be pretended, that mathematical and philosophical truth is the proper subject of the evangelical ministry. Nor is historical truth, any further than it illustrates the gospel, by exhibiting the facts of it, or other important facts relating to the works and the character of God.
The truth then intended in the doctrine is pri|marily evangelical truth, and secondarily all other truth which relates to the gospel and tends to il|lustrate it; as all truth relating to God and his character, especially his moral perfections; all truth relating to his supreme, universal and sove|reign government; all truth relating to his law, its requirements and threatenings; relating to sin, its nature and evil; relating to ourselves, our pre|sent fallen state, and the ruin consequent on the fall; particularly our native and total depravity, our actual sins and the various aggravations of them; our demerit as sinners; our dependence on the mere mercy and sovereign grace of God; our own moral inability to bring ourselves to repentance and holiness of heart and life, and our absolute in|sufficiency to make satisfaction for our sins; the necessity of an atonement and one of infinite val|ue, correspondent to the demerit of our sin; the character of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ, his divinity, his humanity, his offices, his sufferings in our stead, and his readiness to save sinners of

every description, who come to him for this pur|pose; the conditions of his salvation, the privile