Message from the president of the United States, accompanying a copy of the treaty of friendship, limits and navigation, between the United States and the King of Spain. : 29th March 1796, referred to the committee of the whole House, on the state of the union. : Published by order of the House of Representatives.


MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, ACCOMPANYING A COPY OF THE TREATY OF FRIENDSHIP, LIMITS AND NAVIGATION, BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES AND THE KING OF SPAIN.
29th March 1796, Referred to the Committee of the whole House, on the state of the union.
Published by order of the House of Representatives.
MESSAGE from the PRESIDENT of the United States:Gentlemen of the House of Representatives,I SEND herewith, a copy of the Treaty of Friend|ship, Limits, and Navigation, concluded on the 27th of October last, between the United States and his Catholic Majesty. This treaty has been ratified by me, agreeably to the constitution; and the ratification has been dispatched for Spain, where it will doubtless be immediately ratified by his Catholic Majesty.
This early communication of the treaty with Spain has become necessary, because it is stipulated, in the third article, that commissioners, for running the boun|dary line between the territory of the United States and the Spanish colonies of East and West Florida, shall meet at the Natchez, before the expiration of six months from the ratification. And as that period will undoubt|edly arrive before the next meeting of Congress, the House will see the necessity of making provision, in their present session, for the object here mentioned. It will also be necessary to provide for the expense to be incur|red in executing the twenty-first article of the treaty, to enable our fellow-citizens to obtain, with as little delay as possible, compensation for the losses they have sus|tained by the capture of their vessels and cargoes by the subjects of his Catholic Majesty, during the late war be|tween France and Spain.
Estimates of the monies, necessary to be provided, for the purposes of this and several other treaties with foreign nations and the Indian tribes will be laid before you by the proper department.
Go: WASHINGTON.UNITED STATES,
29th March, 1796.TREATY between the United States and the King of Spain.HIS Catholic Majesty and the United States of America desiring to consolidate on a permanent basis the friendship and good correspondence which hap|pily prevails between the two parties, have determined to establish by a convention several points, the settle|ment whereof will be productive of general advantage and reciprocal utility to both nations.
With this intention his Catholic Majesty has appointed the most excellent Lord Don Manuel de Godoy, and Alvarez de Faria, Rios, Sanchez Zarzosa Prince de la Paz: Duke de la Alcudia: Lord of the Soto de Roma, and of the state of Albala: Grandee of Spain of the first class: perpetual Regidor of the city of Santiago: Knight of the illustrious order