An inquiry into the rights of the British colonies, intended as an answer to The regulations lately made concerning the colonies, and the taxes imposed upon them considered. : In a letter addressed to the author of that pamphlet. / By Richard Bland, of Virginia. ; [Two lines in Latin from Lactantius]


AN
INQUIRY
INTO THE
RIGHTS of the BRITISH Colonies,
Intended as an Answer to
The Regulations lately made concerning the
Colonies, and the Taxes imposed upon
them considered. In a Letter addressed to the Author of that Pamphlet.
By RICHARD BLAND, of VIRGINIA.
Dedit omnibus Deus pro virili portione sapientiam, ut
et inaudita investigare possent et audita perpendere.
LACTANTIUS.WILLIAMSBURG:
Printed by ALEXANDER PURDIE, & Co.
MDCCLXVI.
AN
INQUIRY
INTO THE
RIGHTS of the BRITISH Colonies.SIR,I TAKE the Liberty to address you, as the Author
of The Regulations lately made concerning
the Colonies, and the Taxes imposed upon
them considered. It is not to the Man,
whoever you are, that I address myself; but it is to
the Author of a Pamphlet which, according to the
Light I view it in, endeavours to fix Shackles upon
the American Colonies: Shackles which, however
nicely polished, can by no Means sit easy upon Men
who have just Sentiments of their own Rights and
Liberties.
You have indeed brought this Trouble upon yourself,
for you say that many Steps have been lately taken
by the Ministry to cement and perfect the necessary
Connexion between the Colonies and the Mother
Kingdom, which every Man who is sincerely in|terested
in what is interesting to his Country will

anxiously consider the Propriety of, will inquire into
the Information, and canvas the Principles upon
which they have been adopted; and will be ready
to applaud what has been well done, condemn what
has been done amiss, and suggest any Emendations,
Improvements, or Additions, which may be within
his Knowledge, and occur to his Reflexion.
Encouraged therefore by so candid an Invitation, I
have undertaken to examine, with an honest Plainness
and Freedom, whether the Ministry, by imposing Taxes
upon the Colonies by Authority of Parliament, have
pursued a wise and salutary Plan of Government, or
whether they have exerted pernicious and destructive
Acts of Power.
I pretend not to concern myself with the Regulations
lately made to encourage Population in the new Ac|quisitions:
Time can only determine whether the
Reasons upon which they have been founded are agree|able
to the Maxims of Trade and sound Policy, or not.
However, I will venture to observe that if the most
powerful Inducement towards peopling those Acquisi|tions
is to arise from the Expectation of a Constitution
to be established in them similar to the other Royal
Governments in America, it must be a strong Circum|stance,
in my Opinion, against their being settled by
Englishmen, or even by Foreigners, who do not live
under the most despotick Government; since, upon
your Principles of Colony Government, such a Con|stitution
will not be worth th