The beau metamorphized, or The generous maid: an after-piece, in two acts. (Rejected by the managers of the New Theatre, when offered to them for performance.) / By an American citizen of Philadelphia.


THE BEAU METAMORPHIZED, OR THE GENEROUS MAID: AN AFTER-PIECE, IN TWO ACTS.
[Rejected by the Managers of the New Theatre, when offered to them for performance.]
BY AN AMERICAN CITIZEN OF PHILADELPHIA.
FIRST EDITION.
PHILADELPHIA: PRINTED BY JOSEPH C. CHARLESS, FOR THE AUTHOR. 1800.
TO THE READER.THE Author of this and former essays may be charged by some with presumption; from the harsh critic and illiberal classic, he expects but little mercy: on the other hand, he looks for every indulgence from the liberal critic and generous clas|sic. The author does not presume to rank himself among the learned; he is sensible of the disadvan|tages he labours under in point of education and situation in life; he, however, will not give up the right of defending himself against the assertions of two partial and narrow-minded men. That he has been most shamefully treated by the managers of the new theatre, he will make appear to the Reader, by the following circumstances: ......
The Triumphs of Love was brought before the bar of the Public, on friday evening, May 22d, 1795, and acquitted with as much honour, as the Au|thor could wish (considering the curtailed manner in which it was performed.) At the instance of a number of gentlemen the piece was printed. On the opening of the theatre the ensuing season, the Author requested the managers to give it a second represen|tation,.....they refused,.....the Author appealed to the Public,.....they replied,.....he replied in turn, but the

doors of the press were shut against him (he believ|ed) through the influence of the managers.
The following are the pieces alluded to:
For the Philadelphia Gazette
(Feb. 24, 1796)MR. BROWN,Knowing that a great number of the citizens are daily expecting to hear the Triumphs of Love, or the Happy Reconconciliation, announced for per|formance, it is requisite that they should be inform|ed how that piece is situated, by A FAIR RECITAL OF FACTS.
Occasionally visiting the theatre, I was, at times, much disgusted, to see and hear pieces performed, so foreign to the circumstances of a republican peo|ple; which prompted me, at my leisure moments, to throw my ideas into a proper train to produce a drama, which would be more consonanant to the ears of Americans. Upon accomplishing a piece, and aware of the foible common to human nature, of being too partial to what originates with our|selves, I put it, for perusal, into the hands of seve|ral persons, whom I know to be judges of that pe|culiar species of writing: it was returned by them with high encomiums. I was requested by them to submit it to the managers of the new theatre: pur|suing their advice, I did. Some weeks it lay with them; they finally rejected it. I informed the gentlemen of their dicision, they were not a little surprised, and