The doctrine of reprobation briefly considered: being the substance of some lectures in Harvard College. / By Edward Wigglesworth, D.D. and Hollisian Professor of Divinity.


THE DOCTRINE OF REPROBATION BRIEFLY CONSIDERED: BEING THE Substance of some LECTURES IN HARVARD COLLEGE.
By Edward Wigglesworth, D. D. And HOLLISIAN Professor of Divinity.
BOSTON, NEW-ENGLAND: Printed by RICHARD & SAMUEL DRAPER in Newbury-street and THOMAS & JOHN FLEET in Cornhill, 1763.
THE PREFACE.THE Subject of the following Pages was as much disputed in the last century, as per|haps any one controverted point in divi|nity; and very often, with too much warmth and uncharitableness. When it came in my way in the course of my public lectures, some time before the last winter vacation, I could not avoid considering it; but I determined to do it as briefly as would be consistent with giving the Students of the College any tolerable view of the arguments and objections of the contending par|ties. And these I exhibited, in a great measure, tho' not always exactly, in their own words.
SOON after delivering the last of my lectures upon the subject, I was very unexpectedly surpriz|ed with a request from some of my hearers, who told me it was also the desire of many others, that I would consent to their being made public by the press. I put them off from time to time for several months, in hopes they would grow cool and drop the motion; but finding it quite otherwise, I at length yielded with reluctance to repeated solicitations.
I SHALL not wonder if I am censured by some of all parties, for offering but a very small part of what they could have said for themselves. It would have been easy to have heaped up much more on every side; but I was unwilling to tire my audience with the length of a difficult argu|ment; which, for the sake of some, into whose hands it may now fall, I have made much shor|ter than it was delivered in the college: For I am sensible that controversial tracts soon become tedious to persons who have not been used to close and long attention.
AS I was far from expecting that I should ever be desired to publish what is here emitted, I was not careful, when writing, to note in the margin from whom I made extracts; and I have not been able now, at six months distance, to recollect some of them, and give them credit for what was taken from them.
IF a view of the difficulty of the subject here considered, may be improved to promote charity between such as differ in their sentiments about it; or if any serious enquirers for truth, shall find assistance in their search after it, from what is here put into their hands; I shall be humbly thankful to God for it, and not be sorry that I consented to permit, what at the time of doing it, I had much rather have forborn.
The Doctrine of REPROBATION considered with Candor. PART I.JUDE, ver. IV.FOR there are certain men crept in unawares, who were before of old ordained to this condem|nation, ungodly men, turning the grace of o