A humble discourse of the incomprehensibleness of God. In four sermons, preached at the lecture in Boston. 1714. / By Benjamin Colman, M.A. Pastor of a church in Boston. ; With a preface by the Reverend Mr. Pemberton.


A Humble DISCOURSE OF THE Incomprehensibleness OF GOD. IN Four SERMONS, Preached at the Lecture in Boston. 1714.
By BENJAMIN COLMAN, M. A. Pastor of a Church in Boston.
With a PREFACE by the Reverend Mr PEMBERTON.
The Second EDITION.
De Deo etiam Vera dicere Periculosum est.BOSTON: Printed by J. DRAPER, for D. HENCHMAN, over against the Brick Meeting House in Cornhil. MDCCXL.
The Epistle TO THE READER._THE Understanding is the supe|rior Faculty in Man, by which he is raised above the Rest of the visible Creation: And as this Power is the Glory of hu|mane Nature; so the Perfection and Glory of this consists in the Knowledge of GOD. All other Knowledge com|pared with this is mean and trivial; and will ne|ver make us wiser or better, unless placed in Sub|ordination and Subserviency to our Acquaintance with the Blessed GOD. This Knowledge is not perfected in a bare Contemplation of the DEITY; but when true and genuine will exercise Domi|nion in the Soul, and transform it into the Image of Divine Purity and Glory. Hence all the vital Acts of Religion are either comprehended herein, or do flow here-from.
To attain this Knowledge is our great Work on Earth; and the Perfection of it is reserved for our Reward in the expected World of Happiness:
Where to see GOD as He is, and to be like Him will be found to be Life Eternal. And the higher our Improvements are herein in this Life, the more of Heaven do we at present enjoy, and the greater is our Preparation for the happy State of Vision.
NOW nothing is more necessary to our right Knowledge of GOD than that all our Enquiries after this Glorious BEING be temper'd with a live|ly Sense that Incomprehensibleness is a Divine At|tribute; and that it is the sole Prerogative of HIM, whose Understanding is Infinite, fully and adequately to know Himself. We must remember that the most exalted and enlarged Conceptions of the uncreated Excellencies of the Divine Nature, which our Minds can form, when stretch'd to their utmost Capacity, are Inadequate to their sub|lime Subject, and fall infinitely short of the Glory of those Perfections, which are concentred in the Divine Nature, and shine forth in the glorious Works of Nature, Providence and Grace. The Object is too vast and bright, and our Faculties too short, weak and limited, to take, or bear, a full and comprehensive View thereof. The In|finity of every Perfection in GOD, and the Fi|niteness of our Powers of Knowledge, between which there is no Proportion, will forever render a comprehensive Knowledge of GOD an utter Im|possibility. His Excellencies would not be the Perfections of a GOD were they not Infinite, they would not be Infinite could the Creature enter|tain a full View, and form an adequate Mea of them. The essential Glory of GOD, if unvail