An oration, pronounced at Bridgewater, October 4, 1798, at the request of the Columbian Society, by Kilborn Whitman. ; Published by the desire of the hearers. ; [Two lines from President Adams's reply to an address.]


AN ORATION, PRONOUNCED AT BRIDGEWATER, October 4, 1798, at the Request of the Columbian Society, BY KILBORN WHITMAN.
AN ORATION, PRONOUNCED AT BRIDGEWATER, OCTOBER 4, 1798, AT THE REQUEST OF THE Columbian Society.
BY KILBORN WHITMAN.
Published by the Desire of the Hearers.
No principles, institutions, or systems of education, are more fit to be transmitted to posterity, than those received from our ancestors.
PRESIDENT ADAMS's Reply to an Address.Boston: PRINTED BY SAMUEL ETHERIDGE, No. 22, MARLBOROUGH-STREET. 1798.
AN ORATION.GENTLEMEN OF THE COLUMBIAN SOCIETY,IF it was the arduous task of the first emi|grants to America, to fell the forest, plough the field, and defend it from savage beasts, and more savage men; if it was the labour of their children, to make the wilderness "blos|som like the rose," guard their young set|tlements from invasion, and their chartered rights from aggression; if it was the lot of the elders of our day to resist the oppression of the mother country, separate America from the British empire, give her independence and a constitution of government, CAN IT BE DOUBTED, that it falls to our lot to settle the administration of this government, substan|tiate

its powers, and give to our country a national CHARACTER.
THE habits and manners of a young coun|try become assimilated and familiarized by time and intercourse. The necessary connex|ion for defence, commerce, and government, impart to a nation the virtues or vices of em|inent individuals; and time, which ripens all things, disseminates the prevailing "manners as they rise," and forms the appropriate na|tional character. That must be as immature manhood in a nation as in an individual, which on a sudden assumes a national characteristic, unoriginated in experience. No extent of genius, no favourable propensities, or digni|fied sensations, so happily subserve the great purposes of life to the individual or commu|nity, as that knowledge and judgment which age and experience teach and inculcate. The observation is true, if applied to the individ|ual; more important still, if applicable to small communities; of the last consequence, when applied to an extensive empire. A country like the American continent, whose coast is more than sixteen hundred miles, whose inte|rior stretches far to the wilderness, as it pos|sesses variety of clime, soil, and atmosphere, may be supposed to predicate dissimilarity

of manners, habits, and even morals; and when we contemplate America, as the reser|voir for emigration from every clime and nation in Europe, the city of refuge for the oppressed of the earth, it is by no means strange that this variety of manners, habits, and morals should be increased. Absurd then, must be the idea, that a NATIONAL CHARACTER should be born in