The expediency and utility of war, in the present state of things, considered: a discourse before, and at the desire of the Ancient and Honourable Artillery-Company, at Boston, June 4. 1759; being the anniversary of their election of officers: and, in the audience of His Excellency the governor, his Honour the lieutenant-governor, and the Honourable His Majesty's Council of the Province of the Massachusetts-Bay. / By Amos Adams, A.M. Pastor of the First Church in Roxbury.


Mr. ADAMS's Artillery-Election SERMON
THE Expediency and Utility of WAR, in the present State of Things, considered: A DISCOURSE Before, and at the Desire OF THE ANCIENT AND HONOURABLE ARTILLERY-COMPANY, AT BOSTON, June 4. 1759; Being the Anniversary of their Election of Officers: AND, In the Audience of His Excellency the GOVERNOR, HIS HONOUR THE LIEUTENANT-GOVERNOR, AND THE HONOURABLE His Majesty's Council Of the Province of the MASSACHUSETT'S-BAY.
By AMOS ADAMS A. M. Pastor of the First Church in Roxbury.
BOSTON: Printed and Sold by Z. FOWLE and S. DRAPER, at their Printing-Office opposite the Lion & Bell, in Marlbo|borough-street, M,DCC,LIX.
MATT. X. 34.Think not that I am come to send Peace on Earth: I came not to send Peace, but a Sword.JUDGING only by our natural partial Ideas of the divine Wisdom and Goodness, and from our inadequate Views of the Designs of Providence, we should be ready to con|clude, that when the Father of Mercies, the God of Peace, sent his only begotten Son into the World, on a Message of Love to Mankind, one principal Design of his Mission had been, to com|pose the Nations, and establish Peace in this lower World; that he had crushed all the Sons of Vio|lence, and set up a Kingdom against which no Na|tion had dared to exalt itself; that all his Disciples, by their Profession of Christianity, had been secured from the Wrath and Violence of a wicked and restless World; that he had said to the World, Touch not mine Anointed, nor do my Prophets Harm; that every Attempt to disturb their Tranquility, had been punished with immediate Vengeance, Fire from Heaven to devour them. And when, in Contradiction to all such Expectations, we find that the Church of Christ has, in every Age, shared in the Calamities common to Mankind: and more than this, when we find it has been the pe|culiar Object of the implacable Malice of the World;

that the Kings of the Earth have set themselves, and the Princes taken Counsel together against the Lord, and against his Christ; such a Conduct in divine Providence, leads us to wonder at the Designs of Providence, so contrary to what Reason seem'd to sug|gest: we are tempted to say, there is one Event to the Righteous and to the Wicked; were there an in|finitely wise and good Being, that presided over the Affairs of Mortals, surely we should not see real Christianity depressed, and Sin reign and triumph; we should not find the Church of God a Field of Blood, under the long-expected Reign of the glo|rious Prince of Peace.
To teac