A course of experiments, in that curious and entertaining branch of natural philosophy, called electricity; accompanied with explanatory lectures: in which electricity and lightning, will be proved to be the same thing. / By Ebenezer Kinnersley, M.A. Professor of English and oratory, in the College and Academy of Philadelphia.


A COURSE OF EXPERIMENTS, IN that curious and entertaining Branch of NATURAL PHILOSOPHY, called ELECTRICITY; Accompanied with explanatory LECTURES: IN which ELECTRICITY and LIGHTNING, will be proved to be the same Thing.
BY EBENEZER KINNERSLEY, M. A.
Professor of ENGLISH and ORATORY, in the COLLEGE and ACADEMY of PHILADELPHIA.
Printed by A. ARMBRUSTER, MDCCLXIV.
As the Knowledge of Nature tends to enlarge the human Mind, and give us more noble, more grand and exalted Ideas of the AUTHOR of NATURE; it is presumed that this Course of Experiments will meet with Encouragement, as a rational and commendable Entertain|ment.
The Works of the LORD are great, and sought out of all them that have Pleasure therein.
PSALM CXI, 2.LECTURE I.I. OF Electricity in general, with some Account of its Discovery.
II. Experiments, showing that Electricity, when produced by the Friction of Glass, is not created by that Friction.
III. That it is not extracted out of the Substance of the Glass.
IV. That it is not collected out of the circumambient Air. But,
V. That the excited Glass receives it from the Rubber, and other conducting Matter communicating with the Earth; the Whole terraqueous Globe, with every Thing there|on, containing naturally a certain Quantity of it.
VI. That even our Bodies contain enough of it to set a House on Fire.
VII. That it is not the same with culinary Fire.
VIII. That it has, when in a State of Rest, no sensible Heat.
IX. That, when it darts thro' the Air from our Body to another, it will produce Heat by its violent Motion. The two last Propositions will be proved by a very accurate Thermometer of a new Construction.
X. That it will subsist in WATER as well as in any other Matter; the greatest Quantity thereof being not sufficient to quench the smallest Spark of it.
XI. That Sparks of it may be seen and felt rising out of cold Water, or even a Piece of Ice, which will kindle up a burning Flame.
XII. That it is an extremely subtile Matter; as appears by its passing with the greatest Readiness through so dense a Body as Metal.
XIII. That it takes no perceptible Time in passing through large Portions of Space.
XIV. That Glass and Sealing-Wax, as well as several other Substances, when excited by Friction, produce quite contrary Effects; one encreasing, the other diminishing the natural Quantity of Electricity in whatever Body is electrised thereby; which will be shown by several Experiments made with a Globe of each.
XV. That seperate Bodies having different Quantities of it in Proportion to their re|spective Magnitudes, mutually attract each other; and the greater the Difference, the stronger the Attraction.
XVI. That susp