I wish to ask the noble Earl opposite the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, If he can inform the House how far the information recently received from Madagascar corresponds with the telegraphic information which created such a sensation in this country some time ago?
I ask the Question, because, in a recent speech at a dinner in the City, the Prime Minister used language with respect to this information of so ambiguous a character that I am afraid much misconception may be caused by it.
His language was open to the interpretation either that the information originally received was true, but that the French Government had made suitable apology or reparation, or that the information received some time ago was false or exaggerated.
I should be very glad if the noble Earl found it consistent with his duty and with the public interests to give us some information on the subject.
My Lords, voluminous despatches have been received from Madagascar, and are being considered by the Departments and by Her Majesty's Government.
The French Government are in daily expectation of receiving their despatches.
I have agreed with M. Waddington that, as soon as these arrive, there shall be no delay in the intercommunication of the information both Governments have received.
I believe both Governments are animated by the same feelings of self-respect and of friendly feeling towards one another; and it is, therefore, reasonable to expect that a perfectly satisfactory solution of the question may be arrived at.
It might not contribute to this result if I gave any premature opinion on the Papers which have arrived, even if I was prepared, which I am not, at this moment, to do so.
I quite understand the desire of the noble Marquess for information on so delicate a question; but I trust he will not press at present for it under the circumstances which I have mentioned.
asked the noble Earl the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether he has received any communication from the Prussian Government respecting the filling up of the Anglican Bishopric of Jerusalem?
The appointment now rested with the Prussian Government, and the See had been vacant for 18 months, and some £15, 000 was collected by private subscription and placed in the hands of Trustees.
Those Trustees were five in number, of whom four were Members of their Lordships' House; and he ventured to ask the noble Earl, as one of those Trustees, whether he could give any information from the Prussian Government as to the speedy filling up of the vacancy?
There was a considerable number of people in the country who felt that much advantage would accrue from the See being occupied.
He (the Bishop of Rochester) felt that, in this matter, he was to a certain extent upon his honour; for, in the autumn, when the late Archbishop of Canterbury was on his sick bed, which he never afterwards left, he begged him to spare no pains to procure the filling up of this See.
In Jerusalem there were many schools and an adm