168
CLMET3_1_2_168.txt
1780-1850
1825-1849
1840s
1843
Treatise
treat
A system of logic
Mill, John Stuart
M
1806

http://www.gutenberg.org/files/27942/27942-h/27942-h.html
04-02-2013



Introduction .


ß 1 .
There is as great diversity among authors in the modes which they have adopted of defining logic , as in their treatment of the details of it .
This is what might naturally be expected on any subject on which writers have availed themselves of the same language as a means of delivering different ideas .
Ethics and jurisprudence are liable to the remark in common with logic .
Almost every writer having taken a different view of some of the particulars which these branches of knowledge are usually understood to include ; each has so framed his definition as to indicate beforehand his own peculiar tenets , and sometimes to beg the question in their favor .


This diversity is not so much an evil to be complained of , as an inevitable and in some degree a proper result of the imperfect state of those sciences .
It is not to be expected that there should be agreement about the definition of any thing , until there is agreement about the thing itself .
To define , is to select from among all the properties of a thing , those which shall be understood to be designated and declared by its name ; and the properties must be well known to us before we can be competent to determine which of them are fittest to be chosen for this purpose .
Accordingly , in the case of so complex an aggregation of particulars as are comprehended in any thing which can be called a science , the definition we set out with is seldom that which a more extensive knowledge of the subject shows to be the most appropriate .
Until we know the particulars themselves , we can not fix upon the most correct and compact mode of circumscribing them by a general description .
It was not until after an extensive and accurate acquaintance with the details of chemical phenomena , that it was found possible to frame a rational definition of chemistry ; and the definition of the science of life and organization is still a matter of dispute .
So long as the sciences are imperfect , the definitions must partake of their imperfection ; and if the former are progressive , the latter ought to be so too .
As much , therefore , as is to be expected from a definition placed at the commencement of a subject , is that it should define the scope of our inquiries : and the definition which I am about to offer of the science of logic , pretends to nothing more than to be a statement of the question which I have put to myself , and which this book is an attempt to resolve .
The reader is at liberty to object to it as a definition of logic ; but it is at all events a correct definition of the subject of this volume .


ß 2 .
Logic has often been called the Art of Reasoning .
A writer3 who has done more than any other person to restore this study to the rank from which it had fallen in the estimation of the c