The wonder of wonders, or, The strange birth in Hampshire being an exact, true and perfect relation of one A.B. living in a country parish neer the town of Rumsey in Hampshire, relating how the said person was strangely brought to bed the 18th of November last with a live toad, a terrible serpent, and a dead child having some part of its head and face and othe parts devoured by the serpent in the mothers womb ... tune of, My bleeding heart / by T.L.


The wonder of wonders, or, the strange Birth in Hampshire.Being an exact, true, and perfect relation of one A.B. living in a Country parish neer the Town of Rumsey in Hampshire: relating how the said person was strangely brought to bed the 18th. of November last; with a live Toad, a terrible Serpent, and a dead Child, having some part of its head and face, and other parts devoured by the serpent in the Mothers Womb, where at this strange birth the Midwife and other Women sounded at the delivery of the said Monsters; but some of the other Women being more bolder in spirit took the Toad and Serpent and burned them, and buried the child in a decent manner: the said Midwife and other women have testified for the truth of this relation.
Tune of, My bleeding heart.By T. L. [illustration] 

ATtend good Christians young & old,
Observe what hear I shall unfold,
A strange example i'le rehearse,
The like was never put in verse.

'Tis such a wonder strange indeed,
Would make a stony heart to bleed,
When as I have the same declared,
You'l say the like was never heard.

Stange wonders God to us doth send,
For to make us our lives amend,
But some so unbelieving be,
They'l not believe unless they sée.

All in the West of England fair,
Near unto Rumsey in Hampshire,
At Shervel Parish call'd by name,
From thence this true relation came.
The second Part,To the same Tune.
IN this same place which I you tell,
An honest man and his wife did dwell,
They lov'd each other very dear,
As by relation doth appear.

This Woman she with child did prove,
By her husband whom she did love,
He on her had a special care,
All things in order to prepare.

Her time being come she call'd in hast,
In travel she then fell at last,
The neighboring women came with spéed,
For to help her in time of need.

The Midwife she came with good will,
To use her chiefest art and skill,
Some present help for to procure,
To her that torment did endure.

The child-bed woman with pain and woe,
Much misery did undergo,
In bringing forth of such a birth,
Which almost brought her unto death.

The first monster which came to sight,
Was a live toad, which did them fright,
It sprauled and creeped all about,
Which put the women all in doubt.

It had four legs as it is told,
A loathsome creature to behold,
In ugly shape it did appear,
The like no woman e're did bare.

The next that came unto their view,
As for certain it is just and true,
It was a Serpent and a dead child,
Whose life the Serpent did beguile.

For why some of it's face and head,
By this monster was