The speech of Samuel Chew, Esq; chief justice of the government of New-Castle, Kent and Sussex upon Delaware: delivered from the bench to the grand-jury of the county of New-Castle, Nov. 21. 1741; and now published at their request.


THE SPEECH OF SAMUEL CHEW, Esq
Chief Justice of the Government of NEW-CASTLE, KENT and SUSSEX upon DELAWARE:
Delivered from the BENCH to the GRAND-JURY of the County of New-Castle, Nov. 21. 1741; and now pub|lished at their Request.
PHILADELPHIA: Printed and sold by B. FRANKLIN.
M,DCC,XLL.
THE SPEECH, &c.Gentlemen of the GRAND-JURY,_IT is with Pleasure I see, at this time, a Grand-Jury that I am convinced do not re|quire much to be said to them, to instruct them in their Duty, or the Occasion of their being called here: However, Custom makes it ne|cessary that something should be said to you from the Bench: I hope therefore you will give me your Patience, if, instead of confining myself to Sub|jects that relate more immediately to your Office as a Grand Jury, I take up some Part of your Time in treating of a Mat|ter of more general Use, and of the greatest Importance to the Publick Safety; the LAWFULNESS OF DEFENCE against an armed Enemy.
IT may, perhaps, at first View, seem strange that there should be any Occasion to prove a Thing in its own Nature so evident: But whoever reflects, that this very Point has taken up a considerable Part of the publick Debates in a neighbouring Government; to which we are nearly related, and what a Number of Abettors the Assertors of the Unlawfulness of all kind of Defence have sound, will be less surprized at it. For my own Part, I look upon this Doctrine not only to be with|out Warrant or Colour, either from Reason or Revelation; but in its Consequences pernicious to Society, and intirely in|consistent with, and destructive of all civil Government. But as Opinions, otherwise than as they are supported by Reason, ought to be but of little Authority; I will endeavour to discuss this Point fairly, and to set the Matter in a true Light. First, By shewing how the Case stood under the Law of Nature.
Secondly, That no Religion whatsoever, founded upon any pre|tended supernatural Revelation of the Will of GOD, can be true, that is inconsistent with or repugnant to the Law of Nature: And Thirdly, I propose to examine some of the principal Au|thorities from Holy Writ, which the Patrons and Assertors of the Unlawfulness of Defence, under the Gospel-Dispensation, have adduced to prove their Point; and to shew that these Authorities are so far from supporting their Doctrine, that they are either quite foreign to the Case, or that they militate directly against the Adducers of them.
SOME Men of great Learning and Knowledge have amused themselves and the World, with endeavouring to discover what great End the Supream Being proposed to himself in the Creation of the World, and of Mankind in particular; and have formed various Conjectures about it. Certain, however, it is, that an Addition to His o