I should like to ask the Secretary for the Colonies whether he can tell us when we are likely to receive the Swaziland papers.
Matters are in rather a critical position there now, and we should he glad to be assured that we shall have them soon.
I am not surprised that my noble Friend should ask me that question.
He knows that the matter is one which is not altogether in the hands of the Colonial Office, or of any of the public offices that lay papers on the table of your lordships' House.
I have every reason to hope that the papers will be in the hands of Members of this and of the other House, if not next week, within ten days.
About an hour ago my attention was drawn to the fact that the Bill which I have put down for Second Reading to-day is a Bill which comes under the category of those to whose introduction here the House of Commons takes objection.
I confess that if it had been a Bill relating to any British matter it would undoubtedly have come within that category, because it relates exclusively to Customs Duties; but it did not strike me that the rule applied to Bills which relate to the Customs Duties to be levied in the Colonies.
I have, however, looked into the matter since notice was given to me, and I find from precedents dating back as far as 1840 that this rule has invariably prevailed.
There have been introduced into this House Bills in which some of the clauses have related to matters of this sort, and they have been sent down with those clauses marked in red ink; but, unhappily, we cannot take that course with regard to this Bill, because it relates to Customs Duties and to nothing else, and there would be nothing left in the Bill.
Therefore I cannot ask your Lordships to adopt that course, and I am afraid I have no alternative except to move that the Order be discharged and the Bill withdrawn.
I will only venture to say that I do not in the least know whether there is any logical justification for the course taken by the House of Commons, but I must confess that a precedent dating only as far back as 1840 does not impress me with its venerable character.
All I wish to do is to enter a protest against the course adopted by the noble Marquess being taken as conforming to this venerable precedent, or as altering the state of things before it came into operation.
* , in moving that this Bill be read a second time, said, that ever since he first sat in the House of Commons the subject was one to which he had given considerable attention; and he should be afraid to say how many Committees and Commissions to deal with it he had sat upon during that time.
Either as a private Member or as Chairman he had been placed upon them by both Parties; and he had never dealt with the subject in any way from a Party point of view.
If any evidence were wanted of the fact that the subject had been dealt with in freedom from Party bias it might be found in the fact that Bills on this subject, very similar to this Bill, brought forward by himself in