moved the second reading of the London and Blackwell Commercial Railway Bill.
He had heard, with great concern, that his noble Friend (the Duke of Wellington) had declared his intention to oppose the measure.
In almost every instance, the statement of the petitioners against the bill was met with a direct negative by the promoters of the measure, who had testified their fairness in the proceeding by offering to pay the expenses of both parties, if the bill were referred to a Select Committee.
He moved that the bill be read a second time.
said, he should take the sense of the House against the second reading of the bill, and he should do so solely on the ground, that the Act of Parliament which established the Black-wall Railway Company, had expressly and positively declared, that their operations should not extend further into the metropolis than the Minories.
He moved, that the bill be read a second time that day six months
did not attach much importance to the argument used by the noble Duke, for it was manifest, that the Act of one Parliament could not tie up the hands of another.
He objected to the motion of the noble Duke, because it tended to abrogate one of the most useful rules of their Lordships, according to which all private bills should be referred to a Select Committee.
Then evidence as to disputed facts could be taken, and if the bill should be considered objectionable, it would always be in their Lordships' power to throw it out on the third reading.
agreed in principle with the noble and learned Lord, that every private bill should be sent to a Select Committee.
He knew that the noble Duke proceeded on public grounds, but he viewed his proposition with the greater alarm, because it might hereafter be referred to as a precedent.
The railway for which the bill on the Table was wanted, was not a railway on which it was proposed to work machines by means of steam; and he understood that the company were prepared to introduce a clause prohibiting the use of steam or locomotive machines on it.
It was to be a railway on a viaduct, supported by arches; and along its side there was to be a pathway for foot passengers, so that it would add to the communications of the metropolis, instead of restricting them.
said, he could well understand the opposition to the present bill, if it rested on the general ground, that no railway should be permitted to come into the heart of London; but if it were alleged that the bill ought not to pass, because it constituted a breach of contract, or would injure the property of individuals, these were reasons which might best be investigated before a Select Committee, and the bill ought not, on account of them, to be thrown out on the second reading.
He reminded the House, that after the Committee reported, it would be open to any of their Lordships to move the rejection of the bill.
supported the amendment, precisely on the ground, that, under no circumstances, would he give his assent to bringing a railway i