The efficacy of the fear of Hell, to restrain men from sin. Shewed in a sermon before the inferiour court in Northampton, Decem. 3d, 1712. : Together with the benefit of the Gospel, to those that are wounded in spirit. Shewed in several sermons, from Luke 4th. 18, 19. On the occasion of a more than ordinary pouring out of the spirit of God. / By Solomon Stoddard, Pastor of Northampton.


The EFFICACY Of the fear of HELL, To restrain Men from SIN. Shewed in a SERMON Before the Inferiour COURT in NORTHAMPTON, Decem. 3d, 1712. Together with the Benefit of the Gospel, to those that are wounded in Spirit. Shewed in several SERMONS, from Luke 4th. 18, 19. On the Occasion of a more than Ordi|nary pouring out of the Spirit of GOD.
By Solomon Stoddard, Pastor of Northampton.
BOSTON in New-England: Printed by Thomas Fleet, for Samuel Phillips, at the Three Bibles and Crown in King-Street, 1713.
THE EFFICACY Of the Fear of HELL, To restrain Men from SIN.Job 31.23.Destruction from God was a Terrour to me.
IN the foregoing Verses Job makes a solemn Protestation of his Innocency: And Ver. 22. utters a terrible Impre|cation against himself in case he was guilty. Then let mine Arm fall from my Shoul|der-blade, and mine Arm be broken from the Bone. And in this Verse he gives the rea|son

why he did not carry himself Wick|edly. Destruction from God was a Terrour to me.
In the Words mind, 1. How Job was affected. Terrour notes great Fear: Destru|ction from God was Terrible to him. 2. With what he was affected. Destruction from God: Heb. of God. The Genitive Case noting the Efficient, not the Subject.
Q. How came Job to be afraid of Destru|ction from God, seeing he was not only a good Man, but, as appears by many Passages of this Book, had the assurance of his Salvation?
A. There be Temporal Destructions that good Men are in danger of. The Destruction of their Estates, of their Children, and of their Lives. If they carry it Rebelliously, they have no security that such Destruction shall not come upon them. 2. Godly Men have reason to be afraid of Hell. Only here dis|tinguish there is a Slavish fear of Hell, rising from a sence that Men are in a state of Condemnation. Thus they should not fear Hell. And there is a Cautious fear of Hell: That makes them to avoid those Paths that lead to Hell. This ought to be in godly Men, that conditional Proposition is true of godly Men. Rom. 8.13. If you live after the

Flesh, you shall die. And therefore godly Men should have an Awful fear of Hell, and a due care to avoid it. Mat. 10.28. Fear Him that can cast both Soul and Body into Hell: It is a laudable Thing for godly Men to fear Hell.
Doctr. The fear of Hell is a powerful Re|straint from Sin. There are such strong In|clinations in Men to Sin, and so many Temptations, that the World would be more wicked than the old World, were there not something that had considerable power to restrain Men, and a principal Thing to restrain Men is the fear of Hell. There be several other Thin