124
CLMET3_1_2_124.txt
1780-1850
1800-1824
1810s
1817
Other
bio / treat
Biographia Literaria
Coleridge, Samuel Taylor
M
1772
Autobiography but containing few actual autobiographical elements; mostly meditative and essayistic in style, on philosophy and literary criticism
http://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/6081/pg6081.txt
07-11-2012



So wenig er auch bestimmt seyn mag , andere zu belehren , so wuenscht er doch sich denen mitzutheilen , die er sich gleichgesinnt weis , ( oder hofft , ) deren Anzahl aber in der Breite der Welt zerstreut ist ; er wuenscht sein Verhaeltniss zu den aeltesten Freunden dadurch wieder anzuknuepfen , mit neuen es fortzusetzen , und in der letzten Generation sich wieder andere fur seine uebrige Lebenszeit zu gewinnen .
Er wuenscht der Jugend die Umwege zu ersparen , auf denen er sich selbst verirrte .
( Goethe .
Einleitung in die Propylaeen . )


TRANSLATION .
Little call as he may have to instruct others , he wishes nevertheless to open out his heart to such as he either knows or hopes to be of like mind with himself , but who are widely scattered in the world : he wishes to knit anew his connections with his oldest friends , to continue those recently formed , and to win other friends among the rising generation for the remaining course of his life .
He wishes to spare the young those circuitous paths , on which he himself had lost his way .


BIOGRAPHIA LITERARIA


CHAPTER I


Motives to the present work -- Reception of the Author 's first publication -- Discipline of his taste at school -- Effect of contemporary writers on youthful minds -- Bowles 's Sonnets -- Comparison between the poets before and since Pope .


It has been my lot to have had my name introduced both in conversation , and in print , more frequently than I find it easy to explain , whether I consider the fewness , unimportance , and limited circulation of my writings , or the retirement and distance , in which I have lived , both from the literary and political world .
Most often it has been connected with some charge which I could not acknowledge , or some principle which I had never entertained .
Nevertheless , had I had no other motive or incitement , the reader would not have been troubled with this exculpation .
What my additional purposes were , will be seen in the following pages .
It will be found , that the least of what I have written concerns myself personally .
I have used the narration chiefly for the purpose of giving a continuity to the work , in part for the sake of the miscellaneous reflections suggested to me by particular events , but still more as introductory to a statement of my principles in Politics , Religion , and Philosophy , and an application of the rules , deduced from philosophical principles , to poetry and criticism .
But of the objects , which I proposed to myself , it was not the least important to effect , as far as possible , a settlement of the long continued controversy concerning the true nature of poetic dict