Earthquakes the works of God and tokens of his just displeasure. Two sermons on Psal. xviii. 7. At the particular fast in Boston, Nov. 2. and the general thanksgiving, Nov. 9. Occasioned by the late dreadful earthquake. Wherein among other things is offered a brief account of the natural causes of these operations in the hands of God: with a relation of some late terrible ones in other parts of the world, as well as those that have been perceived in New-England since it's [sic] settlement by English inhabitants. / By Thomas Prince, M.A. and one of the Pastors of the South Church in Boston. ; [Four lines from Psalms]


Mr. Prince's FAST & THANKSGIVING SERMONS ON THE EARTHQUAKE.
EARTHQUAKES the Works of GOD and Tokens of his just Displeasure.
Two SERMONS ON PSAL. XVIII. 7. At the Particular Fast in Boston, Nov. 2, and the General Thanksgiving, Nov. 9. Occasioned By the late dreadful EARTHQUAKE.
WHEREIN Among other things is offered a brief ACCOUNT of the Natural Causes of these Operations in the Hands of GOD: With a RELATION of some late terrible Ones in other Parts of the World, as well as those that have been perceived in New-England since it's Settlement by English Inhabitants.
By THOMAS PRINCE, M. A. And one of the Pastors of the South Church in Boston.
Psal. cix. 2.The Works of the LORD are Great, sought out of all them that have Pleasure therein.
Psal. lvi. 5.Come & see the Works of GOD! He is ter|rible in his Doing toward the Children of Men.
BOSTON in NEW-ENGLAND: Printed for D. HENCHMAN, over against the Brick Meeting House in Cornhill. MDCCXXVII.
The PREFACE.Giving a Summary Account of the OC|CASION of the following Sermons.ON the NIGHT after the Lord's Day Octob. 29. about 40 Minutes past X, in a calm & serene Hour, the Town of BOSTON was on a sadden extreamly surpriz'd with the most violent Shock of an EARTHQUAKE that has been known among us. It came on with a loud hollow Noise like the Roar|ing of a Great fired Chimney, but incomparably more fierce & terrible. In about half a Minute the Earth began to heave and tremble: The Shock increasing, rose to the Hight in about a Minute more, when the Moveables, Doors, Windows, Walls, especially in the upper Chambers, made a very fearful Clattering, and the Houses rock'd & crackl'd, as if they were all dis|solving and falling to pieces. The People asleep were awakened with the greatest astonishment: many others affrighted run into the Streets for Safety. But the Shaking quickly abated, and in another half Minute intirely ceased.
THE Noise & Shakes seem'd to come from the Norwestward, and to go off Southeasterly; and so the Houses seemed to reel. Some Damage was done to the more brittle sort of Moveables, and some Bricks on the Tops of some Chimneys fell; but not an House was broken, nor a Creature hurt. At several times till Day-light, were heard some distant Rumblings, and some fainter Shocks were felt: But since, the Earth has been quiet in Town, tho' the minds of many continue very greatly &