A journal of the landing of His Majesty's forces on the Island of Cape-Breton, and of the seige and surrender of Louisbourg: Extracted from Major-General Amherst's and Admiral Boscawen's letters to the Right Honorable Mr. Secretary Pitt.


A JOURNAL Of the Landing of His Majesty's Forces on the Island of CAPE-BRETON, And of the Siege and Surrender of LOUISBOURG: Extracted from Major-General AM|HERST's and Admiral BOSCAWEN's Letters to the Right Honorable Mr. Secretary PITT.
THE THIRD EDITION.
BOSTON, NEW-ENGLAND: Printed and Sold by Green & Russell, in Queen-street. Sold also by Edes & Gill, in Queen-street.
A Journal of the Siege and Surrender of Lou|isbourg, &c.ON the 28th of May I had the good Fortune to meet Admiral Boscawen with the fleet and troops coming out of the harbour of Halifax. Lieutenant-General Bragg's regiment, from the Bay of Fundy, joined the fleet this Day.
The 29th we had sine weather; the ships kept well together; the whole consisted of 157 sail. The Dub|lin [which carried over General Amherst] went very sickly into Halifax.
The 30th the wind blew hard in the Afternoon; the ships were greatly dispersed.
The 31st the wind sometimes contrary, obliged us to tack, and it blew fresh.
The 1st of June Capt. Rous, in the Sutherland, came from off the harbour of Louisbourg, and said, two ships
had got in the 30th; and that there were thirteen sail in the harbour. We saw the entrance of Gabarous at night.
The 2nd it was foggy in the morning; about twelve saw Louisbourg, and the ships in the harbour. The fleet, with about a third of the troops, anchored in Ga|barous Bay; and this evening, with Brigadier-Generals Lawrence and Wolfe, I reconnoitred the shore as near as we could, and made a disposition for landing in three places the next morning, in case the troops arrived.
The enemy had a chain of posts from Cape Noir to the Flat Point and irregulars from thence to the bottom of the bay; some works thrown up at the places which appeared practicable to land at, and some batteries.
On the 3d, most of the transports came in this morn|ing, all was prepared for landing; but the surff on shore was so great, it was impossible to land. This day Bri|gadier-General Whitmore arrived from Halifax, at which place I have left Colonel Monckton to command. As one bay was found to have less surff than the others, a disposition was made to land the next morning in one place, instead of three.
The 4th the wind and surff were so very high, that Admiral Boscawen told me it was impracticable to land.
The 5th a great swell and fog in the morning, and the Admiral declared it still impracticable to land.
The 6th an appearance of change of weather, in the morning early: I was resolved to seize the first oppor|tunity; the signal was made to prepare to land between five and six o'clock, and at eight all the men were in the boats: the fog came on again, and the swell increa|fed
during the time the men were getting into the boats, and the Admiral again declared it i