Acts and laws, passed by the Great and General Court or Assembly of His Majesties province of the Massachusetts-Bay, in New-England. Begun at Boston the twenty-seventh of May, 1696. And continued by several adjournments until Wednesday the eighteenth of November following. Anno regni Guilielmi tertii, Angliae, Scotiae, Franciae, et Hiberniae, regis, octavo.


ACTS AND LAWS, Passed by the Great and General Court or Assembly of His Majesties Province of the Massachusetts-Bay, in New-England.
Begun at Boston the Twenty-seventh of May, 1696. and continued by several Adjournments until Wednesday the Eighteenth of November following.
Anno Regni Guilielmi Tertii, Angliae, Scotiae, Franciae, et Hiberniae, Regis, Octavo.
BOSTON. Printed by Bartholomew Green, and John Allen, Printers to the Governour and Council. 1696.
Anno Regni Guilielmi Tertii, Angliae, Scotiae, Franciae, et Hiberniae, REGIS, Octavo.An Act, For the Equal distribution of Insolvent Estates.BE it Enacted by the Lieutenant Governour, Council and Representatives, in General Court Assembled, and it is Enacted and Ordained by the Authority of the same.
That when the Estate of any person Deceased shall be Insolvent or Insufficient to pay all just Debts which the Deceased owed, the same shall be set forth and distributed to and among all the Cre|ditors in proportion to the Sums to them respectively owing so far as the said Estate will extend, saving that the Debts due to the Crown,
the Sickness and necessary Funeral Charges of the Deceased are to be first paid. And the Executor or Administrator appointed to any such Insolvent Estate before payment to any be made (except as a|foresaid) shall Represent the Condition and Circumstances thereof unto the Judge for Probate of Wills, and granting of Administrati|ons; and the said Judge shall nominate and appoint two or more fit and indifferent persons to make a true and equal Appraisement of such Estate, and Administer an Oath unto them for that purpose;
and shall also nominate and appoint two or more fit persons to be Commissioners, with full power to Receive and Examine all Claims of the several Creditors, and how they are made out: And such Commissioners shall cause the times and places of their meeting to attend the Creditors for the receiving and examining of their Claims to be made known and published by Posting up the same in some publick places in the Shire Town of that County where such Decea|sed Person last dwelt, and of the two next adjoyning Counties. And six, twelve or eighteen months time (as the circumstances of any E|state may require) shall be allowed by the Judge unto the Creditors for bringing in their Claims, and proving their Debts: At the end of which limited time such Commissioners shall make their Report, and present a List of all the Claims unto the said Judge, who shall or|der them meet Recompence out of the Estate, for their care and la|bour in that Affair: And the Debts due to the Crown, Sickness, and necessary Funeral Charge