A poem upon the death of Her late Majesty, Queen Mary, of blessed memory occasioned by an epistle to the author, from Mr. J. Tutchin / by Ben. Bridgewater.


A
POEM
Upon the Death of
Her Late Majesty.
Queen MARY,
OF
BLESSED MEMORY.
OCCASIONED
By an Epistle to the Author, from Mr.
J. Tutchin.
By BEN. BRIDGWATER.
LONDON:
Printed for Richard Baldwin, near the Oxford-Arms-Inn,
in Warwick-Lane, 1695.
A
POEM
Upon the Death of the
QUEEN.
WHAT means, My Friend, by these Unkind
Alarms,
To Tempt an Uninstructed Muse to Arms;
Courting the Timerous Vessel from the Shore,
To Wrack on Seas, that She has try'd before?
Already She by sad Experience finds
To trust to Fame's to trust the Seas and Winds;
For Fame, like them, will still Uncertain be,
Loose as the Wind, and Faithless as the Sea.

'Tis true, the Task is Noble, and Sublime,
Above the reach of any Vulgar Rhime.
None, but the Pen of Dorset can set forth
The Kingdom's Sorrow, and MARIA's Worth:
Dorset, who on a double Score Transcends,
The best of Poets, and the best of Friends.
Whose Noble Muse's unexampled Flight,
At once, gives Admiration, and Delight.
Or Mountague, whose unaffected Strains,
Reward with Pleasure, every Reader's Pains.
His Lays, when-e're he Sung, have Honours won,
Apollo's best Belov'd, and Darling Son,
Or He, who do's so well in Living Verse,
The Glories of our Brittish PRINCE Reherse;
Where Wit and Learning are so neatly Shown,
Virgil himself, cou'd wish it were his own:
And would (Compounding for decreasing Fame)
Exchange Aeneas, for Prince ARTHUR's Name.
These Champions, wou'd they undertake the Fight,
Might awe Mankind, and do MARIA Right;
Adorn'd by them, the Deathless Song should prove
Just as our Grief, and lasting as our Love:

While our Essays but make Her Vertues less,
And blur those Beauties, that they shou'd express.

But least, (my Friend) you rashly shou'd accuse
The modest Scruples of a suffering Muse.
In spite of Critic's Censures, and their Rage,
Provok'd by Your just Summons I'll engage:
And in the general Mourning bear a part,
Tho' with unequal Strength, unequal Art.
As a young Stag, chas'd from his Native Soil,
Fatigu'd with Flight, and Unsuccessful Toil;
Regardless of his Pleasure, and his Food,
No longer roves thro' the neglected Wood;
But Pensively to Gloomy Shades retreats,
Moaning the cross Allotment of his Fates:
Till some bold Hunter chancing on the place,
Directs a well-pois'd Javelin in his Face:
Urg'd by the Wound, he can no longer lie,
But rouzes up to fight, tho' sure to die.

How bless'd was England! How Serene the Day!
How did the Hours, beneath MARIA's Sway!
In ease dissolving, gently pass away!

Remov'd from Danger, and the rude Alarms
Of Civil Faction, or Invading Arms.
While raging Mars, and fierce Bellona's Hands,
Scatter'd wide Ruin thro' the Neighbouring Lands.
As oft as Heav'n call'd WILLIAM out to Fight,
To punish Wrong, and to establish Right.
While He abroad did Forreign Force oppose;
She rul'd at home, and charm'd Domestick Foes:
Aw'd by H