My Lords, I had given notice to-day to move to resolve, that in the opinion of this House the paragraph introduced at the end of article 37 in the New Day School Code, limiting the number of pupil teachers, ought to be omitted; as also the alteration of article 42 to the same effect.
As the whole matter has already been settled, with the consent of the Government, I do not intend.
to move this Motion.
Seeing that my noble Friend the Chancellor of the Duchy is in his place, I should like to ask him if he is in a position to inform the House when it is likely that the Committee stage of the Money-Lending Bill, of which he has charge, will be taken?
There have necessarily been many Amendments to prepare, but I propose to take the Committee stage on Monday week, if that is convenient to the House.
My Lords, the only changes in the law which this Bill makes are those contained in clause 4 and the following clauses.
Under the present law, the Secretary of State has powers to make orders for the transfer to workhouses and lunatic asylums of lunatic soldiers and their wives and families.
He has also power to make orders for the maintenance of soldiers, their wives and families, and their illegitimate children.
The change which we propose to make is that of transferring the power of making these orders from the Secretary of State to the general officer commanding the district.
We recommend that change as consistent with a policy which we have adopted of transferring to local military authorities, where it is possible to do so consistently with public interests, functions which are now, as we believe unnecessarily, exercised at headquarters.
The 5th clause removes doubts which have arisen as to the effect of the Madras and Bombay Armies Act, passed in 1893.
Your Lordships may remember that under that Act the powers of the Commander-in-Chief of Madras and Bombay were transferred to lieutenant-generals, who are placed in command of districts.
It was intended to transfer to lieutenant-generals of districts the powers possessed by the commanders-in-chief of those districts, but, by an accident, that transfer was not completely made, and the generals of districts have not, under the law as it now stands, power to reduce or commute a sentence, to make orders as to deserters, or to reduce noncommissioned officers.
The clause remedies that omission, and restores this power to the general officers of districts.
I think these are the only points I need explain to your Lordships, and I beg to move that the Bill be read a second time.
My Lords, I was unfortunately unable, on account of indisposition, to be present when this Bill was read a second time, but I am very glad to understand that the noble and learned Lord on the Woolsack held out some hope, in moving the Second Reading, that if objections were taken to the change in the law in respect of pensions and allowances to officers and servants of asylums proposed in this Bill, he would not be unwilling to reconside