Treaty, between His Excellency the Honourable George Clinton, captain general and governor in chief of the province of New-York and the territories thereon depending in America, vice-admiral of the same, and vice-admiral of the Red Squadron of His Majesty's Fleet. And the Six United Indian Nations, and other Indian nations, depending on the province of New-York. Held at Albany in the months of August and September, 1746.


TREATY, BETWEEN HIS EXCELLENCY
The Honourable GEORGE CLINTON,
Captain General and Governor in Chief of the Province of New-York, and the Territories thereon depending in AMERICA, Vice-Admiral of the same, and Vice-Admiral of the Red Squadron of His Majesty's Fleet.
AND
The Six United Indian Nations, and other Indian Nations, depending on the PROVINCE of NEW-YORK.
Held at ALBANY in the Months of August and September, 1746.
NEW-YORK:
Printed and Sold by James Parker at the New-Printing Office in Beaver-Street, 1746.
A TREATY between His Excellency the Governor of the Province of New-York, and the Six Nations, and other Indian Nations, depending on said Province.IT is well known in the Province of New-York, that the Six Nations of Indians depending in this Province, (called Iroquois by the French) had lately on several Occasions, appear'd dissatisfied and wavering in their Fidelity to the British Crown. No doubt, this was principally occasion'd by the Artifices of the French of Canada, who had constantly Emissaries among them: But at the same Time there is Reason to think, the suspicious Behaviour of these Nations, in Favour of their once inveterate Enemy the French, could not have arriv'd to the Pitch it did, otherwise than by some Neglects or Misconduct of those who were entrusted by the Government of New-York with the Management of the Indian Affairs.
His Excellency the Governor of New-York, having received his Majesty's Commands, to engage the Indian Nations depending on his Government, to join in the Expedition then intended against Canada, and to make them the usual Presents on that Occasion; and being sensible of the great Use these Nations may be to the Success of this Enterprize, and likewise of the Difficulties that probably might attend his Endeavours at this Time, was desirous to have had the Assistance of as many of the Members of his Majesty's Council as the Circumstances of Affairs would permit; but they all declined to give their Attendance, except Mr. Colden and Mr. Living ston. His Excellency was therefore obliged to act with the smallest Number of Members, which by his Majesty's Commission can form a Council, viz. Three; the above two Gentlemen and Capt. Rutherford, who was then at his Post in Albany.
As soon as his Excellency received his Majesty's Commands, he dispatched from Albany such Persons as, by the best Information he could receive, had Influence among the Six Nations, to invite them severally to meet him at Albany, on the 20th of July. His Excellency arrived at Albany the 21st of July, where having he