The American querist: or, Some questions proposed relative to the present disputes between Great Britain, and her American colonies. By a North-American. ; [Two lines from Berkeley]


THE American Querist: OR, SOME QUESTIONS PROPOSED RELATIVE TO THE PRESENT DISPUTES BETWEEN GREAT BRITAIN, AND HER AMERICAN COLONIES.
BY a NORTH-AMERICAN.
We are not to think every clamorous Haranguer, or every splenetic Repiner against a Court, is therefore a PATRIOT. 
Bishop Berkley.BOSTON: Re-printed by MILLS and HICKS, and Sold at their Printing-Office in School-street, 1774.
THE AMERICAN QUERIST.1. WHETHER Americans have not a right to speak their sentiments on subjects of government; and whether all attempts to check and discourage freedom of speech, any farther than to prevent the licentious abuses of it, are not to be consi|dered as unwarrantable usurpations, tending to introduce and establish a bondage of the worst kind?
2. Whether Americans have not an equal right to express their sentiments, when they happen to differ from, as when they happen to correspond with, the popular opinion?
3. Whether I differ more from another, than he differs from me; and, consequently, whether he has a better right to abuse me for a difference of sentiment, than I have to abuse him?

4. Whether bigotry be not naturally pro|ductive of intolerance, and whether higotry and intolerance in politics be not as absurd in reason, as mean in their nature, and as destructive to society, as bigotry and intole|rance in matters of religion?
5. Whether there can be a greater proof of bigotry, either in religion or politics, than an obstinate resolution to hear or see nothing that is offered on the subject in ques|tion, by persons who are supposed to be of different sentiments?
6. Whether such a resolution be not also a proof, that a man in conscious of the weak|ness of his cause, and afraid of the force of those arguments which may be offered against him?
7. With regard to the present disputes be|tween the British American colonies and their mother country, whether there be not many of the colonists, who, by refusing to hear or see what is offered on the side of govern|ment, betray the abovementioned consci|ousness and fear?

8. Whether political bodies do not resem|ble animal bodies in many respects; and whether, when they are disordered, the same regimen and management which are needful for one, may not be proper for the other, in similar cases?
9. Whether the American colonies do not consider themselves as composing one dis|tinct political body; and whether this body does not appear at this time to be deeply disordered?
10. Whether the disorder of the colo|nies, to speak in language taken from ani|mal bodies, be not of the feverish kind, as it is attended with an irregular, high pulse, and discovers, in some parts, a dangerous swelling and inflammation; and whether it has not been occasioned, in a great mea|sure, by their own imprudence and intem|perance?
11. Whether heating doses do not,