A proposal for promoting useful knowledge among the British plantations in America.


A PROPOSAL for Promoting USEFUL KNOWLEDGE among the British Plantations in America.THE English are possess'd of a long Tract of Continent, from Nova Scotia to Georgia, extending North and South thro' different Cli|mates, having different Soils, producing different Plants, Mines and Minerals, and capable of different Improvements, Manufactures, &c.
The first Drudgery of Settling new Colonies, which confines the Atten|tion of People to mere Necessaries, is now pretty well over; and there are many in every Province in Circumstances that set them at Ease, and afford Leisure to cultivate the finer Arts, and improve the common Stock of Know|ledge. To such of these who are Men of Speculation, many Hints must from time to time arise, many Observations occur, which if well-examined, pursued and improved, might produce Discoveries to the Advantage of some or all of the British Plantations, or to the Benefit of Mankind in general.
But as from the Extent of the Country such Persons are widely separated, and seldom can see and converse or be acquainted with each other, so that many useful Particulars remain uncommunicated, die with the Discoverers, and are lost to Mankind it is, to remedy this Inconvenience for the future, proposed,
That One Society be formed of Virtuosi or ingenious Men residing in the several Colonies, to be called The American Philosophical Society; who are to maintain a constant Correspondence.
That Philadelphia being the City nearest the Centre of the Continent-Co|lonies, communicating with all of them northward and southward by Post, and with all the Islands by Sea, and having the Advantage of a good growing Library, be the Centre of the Society.
That at Philadelphia there be always at least seven Members, viz. a Phy|sician, a Botanist, a Mathematician, a Chemist, a Mechanician, a Geogra|pher, and a general Natural Philosopher, besides a President, Treasurer and Secretary.
That these Members meet once a Month, or oftner, at their own Expence, to communicate to each other their Observations, Experiments, &c. to re|ceive read and consider such Letters, Communications, or Queries as shall be sent from distant Members; to direct the Dispersing of Copies of such Com|munications as are valuable, to other distant Members, in order to procure their Sentiments thereupon, &c.
That the Subjects of the Correspondence be, All new-discovered Plants, Herbs, Trees, Roots, &c. their Virtues, Uses, &c. Methods of Propagating them, and making such as are useful, but particular to some Plantations, more general. Improvements of vegetable Juices, as Cyders, Wines, &c. New Methods of Curing or Preventing Diseases. All new-discovered Fossils in different Countries, as Mines, Minerals, Quarries, &c. New and useful Improvements in any Branch of Mathematicks. New Discoveries in Che|mistry, such as Improvements in Distillation, Brewing, Assaying of Ores, &c. New Mechanical Inven