173
CLMET3_1_2_173.txt
1780-1850
1825-1849
1840s
1848
Narrative fiction
fict
Mary Barton
Gaskell, Elizabeth
F
1810

http://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/2153/pg2153.html
04-02-2013



I .
A MYSTERIOUS DISAPPEARANCE .


`` Oh ! '
t is hard , 't is hard to be working The whole of the live-long day , When all the neighbours about one Are off to their jaunts and play .
`` There 's Richard he carries his baby , And Mary takes little Jane , And lovingly they 'll be wandering Through fields and briery lane . ''
- MANCHESTER SONG .
There are some fields near Manchester , well known to the inhabitants as `` Green Heys Fields , '' through which runs a public footpath to a little village about two miles distant .
In spite of these fields being flat , and low , nay , in spite of the want of wood ( the great and usual recommendation of level tracts of land ) , there is a charm about them which strikes even the inhabitant of a mountainous district , who sees and feels the effect of contrast in these commonplace but thoroughly rural fields , with the busy , bustling manufacturing town he left but half-an-hour ago .
Here and there an old black and white farmhouse , with its rambling outbuildings , speaks of other times and other occupations than those which now absorb the population of the neighbourhood .
Here in their seasons may be seen the country business of haymaking , ploughing , etc. , which are such pleasant mysteries for townspeople to watch : and here the artisan , deafened with noise of tongues and engines , may come to listen awhile to the delicious sounds of rural life : the lowing of cattle , the milkmaid 's call , the clatter and cackle of poultry in the farmyards .
You can not wonder , then , that these fields are popular places of resort at every holiday time ; and you would not wonder , if you could see , or I properly describe , the charm of one particular stile , that it should be , on such occasions , a crowded halting place .
Close by it is a deep , clear pond , reflecting in its dark green depths the shadowy trees that bend over it to exclude the sun .
The only place where its banks are shelving is on the side next to a rambling farmyard , belonging to one of those old world , gabled , black and white houses I named above , overlooking the field through which the public footpath leads .
The porch of this farmhouse is covered by a rose-tree ; and the little garden surrounding it is crowded with a medley of old-fashioned herbs and flowers , planted long ago , when the garden was the only druggist 's shop within reach , and allowed to grow in scrambling and wild luxuriance - roses , lavender , sage , balm ( for tea ) , rosemary , pinks and wallflowers , onions and jessamine , in most republican and indiscriminate order .
This farmhouse and garden are within a hundred yards of the stile of which I spoke , leading from the large pasture field into a smaller one , divided by a hedge of hawthorn and blackthorn ; and near this stile , on the furthe