The nature of riches, shewed from the natural reasons of the use and effects thereof: together with some improvements made upon the considerations of the nature and effect of riches. / By Joseph Morgan.


THE NATURE OF RICHES, Shewed From the Natural Reasons of the Use and Effects thereof: Together with some Improvements made upon the Considerations of the Nature and Effect of Riches.
By Joseph Morgan.
PHILADELPHIA: Printed by B. FRANKLIN, 1732.
THE NATURE OF RICHES._RICHES is commonly taken for a Plenty of the Necessaries for the Support of Human Life: And if every Man would seek the Good of others, as truly and sincerely, as men ought to seek their own; there would be no Occasion for any Man to have his Ri|ches or Estate to himself. For every

Man would labour sincerely, in his calling, for the Good of the Whole, the Hus|bandman, the Trades-man, the Merchant, the Sailor, the Ruler, the Teacher, and all other needful Employs. And all that is produced, would be for every one as he needs. And what People raise in one Country more than they need, would be carried to another Country that needs it. And what they of the other Country have to spare, would be brought back to the Country that needs it. And no Price would be talked of; but every man would labour faithfully in his calling to raise all he can; and the Merchants deal out, re|ceive and transport; the Carpenters build for such as need &c. Thus all Men would have Plenty, and Contentions would cease, and most of the Miseries of this World would be taken away.
It is an approved Way, Acts IV, 32. Sin is the only Hinderance: For now, since men love none but themselves, such a thing would be vain to talk of; few men would labour faithfully, and all things would come short, so that there is a Necessity that each man be the proper Owner of what his Industry raises. And
Covetousness (which is Idolatry) must be the Support of the World, and the Mise|ry of it both. Each man coveting to make himself rich, carries on the Publick Good: For Men cannot gain Riches and use 'em, except they help others by it. Thus God in his Wisdom and Mercy turns our Wickedness to publick Benefit, or the World could not stand.
Riches are given for Publick Good, and it is not in the Skill of the most co|vetous and envious Man to make it other|wise. It must be put to the use it was made for. He cannot swallow it all into his own Belly. Others must have part with him, or he cannot gain or keep his Riches. And he can have but his neces|sary Food and Raiment out of it, (for God has given him no more, and nothing more will do him good) and if Covet|eousness do not hinder, the poorest Man has that as well as he. He pleases him|self, that he will leave his Riches to his Children. But how commonly doth this prove their Undoing for ever (as the gaining of it was to their Father) while Poor Mens Children by honest Industry prove happy in this Life and the next.
A rich Man is a Slave to others: while he thinks others are Slaves to him. He