The votes and proceedings of the freeholders and other inhabitants of the town of Boston, in town meeting assembled, according to law. (Published by order of the town.) : To which is prefixed, as introductory, an attested copy of a vote of the town at a preceding meeting.


THE VOTES and PROCEEDINGS OF THE FREEHOLDERS and other INHABITANTS OF THE Town of BOSTON, In Town Meeting assembled, ACCORDING TO LAW.
[Published by Order of the Town.]
To which is prefixed, As Introductory, an attested Copy of a Vote of the Town at a preceeding Meeting.
BOSTON: PRINTED BY EDES AND GILL, IN QUEEN-STREET, AND T. AND J. FLEET, IN CORNHILL.
At a Meeting of the Freeholders and other Inhabitants of the Town of Boston, duly warned, and legally assembled, in Faneuil-Hall, on Wednesday the 28th of October, 1772; and from thence continued by Ad|journments to Monday the 2d of November following.It was moved, That a Committee of Correspondence be appointed, to consist of Twenty-one Persons, "to state the Rights of the Colonists, and of this Province in particular, as Men, as Chris|tians, and as Subjects,; to Communicate and Publish the same to the several Towns in this Province, and to the World, as the Sense of this Town, with the Infringements and Viola|tions thereof that have been, or from Time to Time may be made; also requesting of each Town a free Communication of their Sentiments on this Subject."

Whereupon the following Gentlemen were nominated and appointed for the Purposes aforesaid, to make Report to the Town as soon as may be, viz. The Hon. James Otis, Esq Mr. Samuel Adams, Dr. Joseph Warren, Dr. Benjamin Church, Mr. William Dennie, Mr. William Greenleaf, Joseph Greenleaf, Esq Dr. Thomas Young, Mr. William Powell, Mr. Na|thaniel Appleton, Mr. Oliver Wendell, Mr. John Sweetser, Josiah Quincy, Esq Capt. John Brad|ford, Richard Boynton, Esq Captain William Mackay, Major Nathaniel Barber, Deacon Caleb Davis, Mr. Alexander Hill, Mr. William Molineux, and Mr. Robert Pierpont.
A true Copy, Attest. WILLIAM COOPER, Town-Clerk.At a Meeting of the Freeholders and other Inhabitants of the Town of BOSTON, duly warned and assembled in Faneuil-Hall accord|ing to Law, on Friday the 20th of November, 1772; then and there to receive and act upon the Report of a Committee appointed at a former Meeting on the 2d of the same Month, and such other Things as might pro|perly come under the Consideration of the Town. The Honorable JOHN HANCOCK, Esq Being unanimously chosen Moderator, The Chairman of said Committee acquaint|ed him that he was ready to make Re|port, and read the same as follows.THE Committee appointed by the Town the second Instant "to state the Rights of the Colonists and of this Province in particular, as Men, as Christians, and as Subjects; to communicate and publish the same

to the several Towns in this Province and to the World, as the Sense of this Town, with the Infringements and Violations thereof that have been, or from Time to Time may be made. Also request