Remarks upon a discourse intituled An overture. Presented to the reverend synod of dissenting ministers sitting in Philadelphia, in the month of September, 1728. In a letter to the author. / By a member of the said synod.


REMARKS UPON A DISCOURSE INTITULED An OVERTURE.
Presented to the REVEREND SYNOD of Dissenting MINISTERS sitting in Philadelphia, in the Month of Sep|tember, 1728.
In a LETTER to the AVTHOR.
By a Member of the said SYNOD.
Printed by I. Peter Zenger, in Smith-Street, in New-York. 1729.
REMARKS Upon a DISCOURSE Intituled An OVERTURE, &c. In a LETTER to the Author.Reverend and Dear Brother,_THE Glory of God, and Interest of Religion, having been the Motives of your publishing your Reasons for a Subscription to the Westminster Confession, &c. You cannot be displeased with me, if from the same Motives, I offer some Objections against the proposed Subscription, and your Arguments to perswade it.
I have nothing to object against your appear|ing publickly in this Case: For, if Subscription be a Duty, and the Cause you espouse be the Cause of God, (as you seem very confident that it is) it must be a commendable Zeal, that prompts you to be extensively useful and ser|viceable, in such an important Affair. I shall therefore make no Remarks upon your Apology, for the Publication of the Overture and Preface:

But immediately enter upon the Merits of the Cause, and consider,
Whether it is the Duty of our Synod, pub|lickly and Authoritatively to adopt the Westmin|ster Confession of Faith and Catechisms, &c. and to oblige their Members, and every Candidate for the Ministry within their Bounds, to sub|scribe them? This you hold in the Affirmative, and have endeavoured to prove. But either you have wanted Success in that Attempt, or I am so unhappy as not to see the Force of your Arguments.
I shall therefore, with all that Candour and Respect that is due to you, as a Christian and a Minister of the Gospel, offer you the Reasons of my Dissent from your Proposal, by first taking some Notice of the Arguments for estab|lishing your Opinion, both in the Overture and Preface, then, by stating my own Objections, and occasionally considering what occurs in your Discourse, to obviate them.
The Argument that claims my first Notice, is in the first and second Pages of the Overture, which may be thus summed up.
That it's the unquestionable Duty of every Christian, according to his Station, especialy of every Gospel Minister, and not of them only; but of every Gospel Church as an Organized Bo|dy politic, to maintain and defend the Truths of the Gospel against all Opposition; and also to endeavour to perpetuate and propagate them unto Posterity, pure and uncorrupt.
But what Consequence would you draw from hence? Is the debated Subscription therefore necessary; because it's the only, or the most probable Means to answer these Ends? This I think must be your Meaning, or else your Ar|gument is inconclusive. But then,
1. It's the unquestionable Duty of every Chri