254
CLMET3_1_3_254.txt
1850-1920
1900-1924
1900s
1908
Drama
drama
Dolly reforming herself
Jones, Henry Arthur
M
1851

http://www.gutenberg.org/files/27271/27271-h/27271-h.htm
05-02-2013



PERSONS REPRESENTED .


Harry Telfer ( Dolly 's husband ) .
Matthew Barron ( Dolly 's father ) .
Captain Lucas Wentworth ( Dolly 's cousin ) .
Professor Sturgess .
The Reverend James Pilcher ( Vicar of Crookbury . )
Criddle .


Mrs. Harry Telfer ( Dolly ) .
Mrs. Sturgess ( Renie ) .
Peters ( Dolly 's maid ) .
ACT I .


Scene .
- The Drawing-Room at Harry Telfer 's , The Gables , Crookbury Green , Surrey .


Time - The afternoon of 1st January , 1907 .


ACT II .


Scene .
- The same .


Time - After dinner on the same day .


ACT III .


Scene .
- The same .


Time - Later on the same night .


ACT IV .


Scene .
- The same .


Time - The afternoon of 1st January , 1908 .


[ 8 ]


[ 9 ]


Dolly Reforming Herself


ACT I .


Scene : Drawing-room at Harry Telfer 's , The Gables , Crookbury Green , Surrey .
A well-furnished room in a modern red brick country house .
At the back , a little to the right , is a door leading into the hall .
All along the right side is a glass partition , showing a conservatory which is entered by glass doors , one up stage , the other down .
On the left side is a large fireplace .
At the back , in the centre , is a handsome writing-desk with a shut down flap lid .
Above the fireplace , facing the audience is a large sofa .
To the right of sofa , and below it in the left centre of the room is a small table , and near to it an easy chair .
Right centre down stage is a larger table .


Time : The afternoon of 1st January , 1907 .


Discover at writing-table , back to audience , Dolly Telfer , a bright little woman about thirty , busied with bills and papers .
Bending over her , back to audience , is her father , Matt Barron , a pleasant-looking , easy-going cynic of sixty .
Harry Telfer , Dolly 's husband , an ordinary good-natured , weakish , impulsive Englishman about thirty-five , is standing with his back to the fire .
Sitting on sofa , reading a scientific book , is Professor [ 10 ] Sturgess , a hard , dry , narrow , fattish scientific man about forty-five .
At the table , right , reading a French novel , is Renie Sturgess , the Professor 's wife , a tall , dark , handsome woman about thirty .


Harry .
No , I ca n't say that I pay very much attention to sermons as a rule , but Pilcher gave us a regular downright , no-mistake-about-it , rouser at the Watch-night Service last night .


Matt .
[ Turning round . ]
I wonder what precise difference this rousing sermon will make in the conduct of any person who heard it .


Harry .
Well , it 's going to make a lot of difference in my conduct .
At least , I wo n't say a lot of difference , because I do n't call myself a very bad sort of fellow , do you ?


Matt .
N-o - No - -


Harry .
At any rate I 'm a thundering good husband , ai n't I , Dolly ?
[ Dolly takes no notice . ]
And I 've go