The examination & confession of Edward Fitz-Patrick, after his committing murder on the body of Daniel Campbell at Rutland, on the 8th day of March 1743,4.


THE Examination & Confession of Edward Fitz-Partrick After his committing Murder on the Body of Daniel Campbell at Rutland, on the 8th Day of March 1743,4.Memorandum March 27th 1744.THIS Day about 10 o'Clock in the Forenoon, Mr. Luke Brown, un|der Keeper of the Goal in Wor|cester, informed me the Subscriber one of His Majesty's Justices of the Peace for the County of Worcester, that he had been read|ing sundry Passages of holy Writ to Edward Fitz Partrick relating to Murder; and after some Discourse thereon, (as Brown in|formed me) Fitz Partrick told him if Mr. Burr and myself would come to the Goal, he would confess the whole Truth (relat|ing to Campbell's Murder;) accordingly be|tween one & two o'Clock in the Afternoon we went to him, Brown being present. Fitz Partrick, confess'd himself to be guilty of willfully murdering said Campbell, by throwing him down, and strangling him; and in the Fray Campbell bit the middle Finger of his right Hand (which now had the Wounds on it) which bled, and with which it was that he blooded his Cloaths with, that he said Partrick had on when the Murder was done, (the Cloaths being now in my Possession, and the Jacket bloody.)
I then ask'd him if Campbell did not bleed? he answered, no, he strangled him and did not strike him to make him bleed.
This Murder was committed the Thurs|day Night before the dead Body of Camp|bell was found, being the 8th instant.
Fitz Partrick further declared that the Evening before the Murder was done, Campbell and he had been to William Whitaker's, and the said Partrick came home first and went to the Barn, and when Campbell came home, he told him the Cattle were loose in the Barn; this he did to get him out, and they both ran to the Barn together, where he did the Murder in the Manner aforesaid: After which he car|ry'd the dead Body to the Place where it was bury'd, that he dug the Grave with the Spade found in the House, and on Saturday Morning he covered the Grave with Loggs, that he cut off some Buttons of Campbell's Jacket, and design'd them for his own Breeches (which Buttons I now have by me) that some Muslin since found in his Pocket, he took out of Campbell's Chest some Time after the Murder.
He also own'd, he took a Snuff Box out of said Chest, hung & tipt with Silver, with something in it; as also another Box; and as he was opening one of 'em atone Lamond's House in Rutland, something fell out of the Box, & he had not Time to look for it, nor did he know what it was; that he hid the Box hung and tipt with Silver by a Stump near Campbell's House in the Road; that he hid a Box called a Cannoe Box of Campbell's in the Wall near said Lamond's House; that he hid a pair of Shoes of Campbell's in a Heap of Stones near the Barn with the Soles upward, and a slat Stone laid over them. A pair of Silver Shoe-Buckles of Campbell'