Admiral Byng's defence, as presented by him, and read in the court January 18, 1757, on board His Majesty's Ship St. George, in Portsmouth Harbour. : Containing a very particular account of the action on the 20th of May, 1756, off Cape Mola, between the British and French fleets, and the whole proceedings of his Majesty's fleet during the six days it was off Minorca.


THE PROCEEDINGS OF THE COURT-MARTIAL ON THE TRIAL OF Admiral BYNG, Held on Board his Majesty's Ship St. George, in Portsmouth Harbour; begun December 27, 1756, and continued till January 27, 1757.
CONTAINING A Summary of the Evidence as delivered each Day in Court, methodi|cally digested, and the Proofs and Arguments as well for as against him, fairly and impartially stated.
To which is added, The Admiral's DEFENCE, as presented by him, and read in the Court January 18, 1757. Together with an Account of his Behaviour in his last Moments.
With general Observations on the whole.
LONDON: Printed. BOSTON; NEW-ENGLAND, Re-printed and Sold by GREEN & RUSSELL, at their Office Queen-street, and by R. DRAPER, in Newbury-street. M.DCC.LVII
INTRODUCTIONCOPY of Admiral BYNG's INSTRUCTIONS.WHEREAS the King's Pleasure has been signified to us by Mr. Fox, one of his principal Secretaries of State, that, upon Consideration of the several Advices which have been received relating to the supposed Intention of the French to attack the Island of Minorca, a Squadron of Ten Ships of the Line do forthwith sail for the Mediterranean, under your Command; and whereas we have appointed the Ramilies, Buckingham, Culloder, Cap|tain, Revenge, Lancaster, Trident, Intrepid, Kingston and Defiance, for this Service. You are hereby required and directed, immediately to put to Sea with such of them as are ready (leaving Orders for the Rest to follow you as soon as possible) and proceed with the utmost Expedition to Gibraltar.
Upon your Arrival there, you are to enquire whether any French Squadron is come through the Straits; and if there is, to inform your|self as well as possible, of their Number and Force, and if any Part of them were Transports: And as 'tis probable they may be designed for North-America, and as his Majesty's Ships the Grafton, Stirling-Castle, Fougueux, Nottingham, Litchfield, Centurion, Norwich, Success and Vulture Sloop, are either at, or going to Halifax, and are to cruize off Louisbourg and the Mouth of the River St. Lawrance, you are imme|diately to take the Soldiers out of so many Ships of your Squadron, as, together with the Ships at and going to Halifax, will make a Force superior to the said French Squadron (replacing them with Landmen, or ordinary Seamen from your other Ships) and then detach them un|der the Command of Rear Admiral West, directing him to make the best of his Way off Louisbourg, and taking the aforementioned Ships, which he may expect to find there, under his Command, to cruize off the said Place, and the Entrance of the Gulf of St. Lawrance, and use his utmost Endeavour