A discourse on "the good news from a far country." Deliver'd July 24th. A day of thanks-giving to Almighty God, throughout the province of the Massachusetts-Bay in New-England, on occasion of the repeal of the Stamp-Act; appointed by His Excellency, the governor of said province, at the desire of it's House of Representatives, with the advice of His Majesty's Council. / By Charles Chauncy, D.D. a Pastor of the First Church in Boston.


Dr. Chauncy's DISCOURSE On a Day of Thanks-giving For the REPEAL of the STAMP-ACT.
A DISCOURSE On "the good News from a far Country." Deliver'd July 24th. A Day of Thanks-giving to Almighty GOD, throughout the Province of the Massachusetts-Bay in New-England, on Occasion of the REPEAL of the STAMP-ACT; appointed by his Excellency, the GOVERNOR of said Province, at the Desire of it's House of RE|PRESENTATIVES, with the Advice of his MAJESTY'S COUNCIL.
By CHARLES CHAUNCY, D.D. A Pastor of the first Church in Boston.
BOSTON: N.E. Printed by KNEELAND and ADAMS, in Milk-street, for THOMAS LEVERETT, in Corn-hill. MDCCLXVI.
A Thanks-giving SERMON.PROVERBS 25. 25."As cold Waters to a thirsty Soul; so is good News from a far Country."WE are so formed by the God of na|ture, doubtless for wise and good ends, that the uneasy sensation to which we give the name of thirst, is an inseperable attendant on the want of some proper liquid. And as this want is increased, such proportionably will be the increase of uneasiness; and the uneasiness may gradually heighten, till it throws one into a state that is truly tormenting. The application of cooling

drink is fitted, by an established law of hea|ven, not only to remove away this uneasiness, but to give pleasure in the doing of it, by its manner of acting upon the organs of taste. There is scarce a keener perception of plea|sure, than that which is felt by one that is a|thirst upon being satisfied with agreable drink. Hence the desire of spiritual good things, in those who have had excited in them a serious sense of God and religion, is represented, in the sacred books, by the "cravings of a thirsty man after drink." Hence the devout David, when he would express the longing of his soul to "appear before God in his sanctuary," re|sembles it to the "panting of an hart after the water-brooks." In like manner, "cold water to a thirsty soul" is the image under which the wise man would signifie, in my text, the gratefulness of "good news." Tis re|freshing to the soul, as cold waters to the tongue when parched with thirst: Especially is good news adapted to affect the heart with pleasure, when it comes "from a far country," and is big with important blessings, not to a few individuals only, but to communities, and numbers of them scattered over a largely ex|tended continent.
SUCH is the "good news" lately brought us from the other side the great waters. No news

handed to us from Great-Britain, ever gave us a quicker sense, or higher degree, of plea|sure. It rapidly spread through the Colon