186
CLMET3_1_2_186.txt
1780-1850
1825-1849
1830s
1835
Drama
drama
Esther, the royal Jewess
Polack, Elizabeth
F
a1810

http://www.etang.umontreal.ca/bwp1800/plays/polack_esther/Polack_Esther.pdf
04-02-2013



To John Farrell , Esq. .
Sir , Permit me to offer you a Drama which your indefatigable and liberal conduct has contributed to render more successful than my most sanguine hopes anticipated .
I dedicate my Royal Jewess to you , as a tribute of gratitude for the attention you have bestowed on its production , and which I am proud thus publicly to acknowledge .
I would it were possible to express my thanks to your Company , as earnestly as I feel the value of their exertions .
I have the honour to be , Sir , Your obedient Servant , Elizabeth Polack .
Dramatis Personae King Ahasuerus Mr. Dibdin Pitt Mordecai Mr. Cobham Haman Mr. Freer Barnazabus Mr. Forde Teresh Mr. Courtney Bigthana Mr. Rignold Muchacus Mr. Lewis Selim Mr. Garthwaite Hatach Mr. Shoard Officer Mr. Chapino Vashti Mrs. Wingrove Irene Mrs. Forde Esther Mrs. H. Lewis Priests , Guards , Attendants , &c. Produced at the Pavilion Theatre , March 7th , 1835 .
Time of Representation - 2 hours 35 minutes .
Costume Ahasuerus Robe and train of rose-colored velvet , richly trimmed , hanging sleeves .
Under garments , white tucker .
Persian turban , white shoes .3 Haman Tunic and robe of garnet velvet .
White drapery , edged with gold , Persian turban , white shoes .
Muchacus White linen garments , head uncovered .
Teresh and Bigthana Drab cloth tunic , scarlet drapery , trimmed with gold , turban .
Mordecai Dark cloth gabardine , girdle , round black hat , dark shoes .
Second dress - Patched dark loose wrapper , hat and shoes as before .
Third dress - Dark wrapper , sprinkled with white tufts to appear like snow , white wig and beard .
Fourth dress - Rich tunic and draperies , toque of scarlet and gold tissue , scarlet half boots .
Fifth dress - An astrologer 's robe , with a large hood to cover the head .
Levi Dark gabardine , girdle , coloured turban , striped stockings , black shoes .
Selim Close dress of dark cloth , turban .
Barnazabus Blue tunic , white and gold drapery , turban , shoes .
Vashti White satin petticoat , crimson satin body and train , trimmed with gold , gold tissue turban , white satin shoes .
Esther A low round dress of drab cambric , trimmed round the bottom with entwined ribbon , white ... , short sleeves , toque of white muslin , striped boots .
Second dress - Under dress of white satin , round gown , and train of net , spotted and richly trimmed with silver .
A deep round cape of the same fastened on each shoulder .
Persian turban of silver tissue , richly ornamented , white satin shoes , sandalled .
Irene Dress and turban of pink crepe .
Act I Scene 1 [ The Grand Tent of Ahasuerus , the whole of the Stage occupied , having the appearance of a splendid Marquee , erected on golden and silver Pillars ; The Draperies of white and purple .
Splendid Banners , &c..
A magn