The articles, published by Congress, of a treaty of amity and commerce, and of a treaty of alliance between the crown of France and these United States, duly entered into and executed at Paris, on the 6th day of February last, by a minister properly authorised by his Most Christian Majesty on the one part, and the commissioners of Congress on the other part. : Also the Articles of confederation and perpetual union between the United States of America, as proposed by Congress to the legislatures of the different states.


THE ARTICLES, Published by CONGRESS, OF A TREATY of AMITY and COMMERCE, AND OF A TREATY of ALLIANCE Between the CROWN of FRANCE And these UNITED STATES, Duly entered into and executed at Paris, on the 6th day of February last, by a Minister properly authorised by his Most Christian Majesty on the one part, and the Commissi|oners of Congress on the other part. ALSO THE ARTICLES OF CONFEDERATION and PERPETUAL UNION Between the United States of America, as pro|posed by Congress to the Legislatures of the different States.
LANCASTER: Printed by JOHN DUNLAP.
In CONGRESS, MAY 6, 1778.WHEREAS Congress have received, from their Commissioners at the Court of France, copies of a Treaty of Amity and Commerce, and of a Treaty of Alliance, between the Crown of France and these United States, duly entered into and exe|cuted at Paris, on the 6th day of February last, by a Minister properly authorised by his Most Christian Majesty on the one part, and the said Commissioners on the other part: AND WHEREAS the said Treaties have been maturely considered and una|nimously ratified and confirmed by Congress. In which said Treaty of Amity and Commerce are the Articles following, to wit.
ARTICLE VI. The Most Christian King shall endeavour, by all the means in his power, to pro|tect and defend all vessels and the effects belonging to the subjects, people or inhabitants of the said U|nited States, or any of them, being in his ports, havens, roads, or on the seas near to his countries, islands, cities or towns; and to recover and restore to the right owners, their agents or attorneys, all such vessels and effects which shall be taken within his jurisdiction; and the ships of war of His Most Christian Majesty, or any convoy sailing under his authority, shall, upon all occasions, take under their protection, all vessels belonging to the subjects, peo|ple

or inhabitants of the said United States, or any of them, and holding the same course, or going the same way, and shall defend such vessels, as long as they hold the same course, or go the same way, a|gainst all attacks, force and violence, in the same manner as they ought to protest and defend the vessels belonging to the subjects of the Most Christian King.
ARTICLE VII. In like manner the said United States, and their ships of war, sailing under their authority, shall protect and defend, conformably to the tenor of the preceding article, all the vessels and effects belonging to the subjects of the Most C