Piety and arms. A sermon, preached at the request of the Ancient and Honourable Artillery Company, in Boston, June 3, 1799; the anniversary of their election of officers. / By William Emerson.


Mr. EMERSON'S ARTILLERY ELECTION SERMON.
Piety and Arms. A SERMON, PREACHED AT THE REQUEST OF THE ANCIENT AND HONOURABLE ARTILLERY COMPANY, IN BOSTON, JUNE 3, 1799; THE ANNIVERSARY OF THEIR ELECTION OF OFFICERS.
By WILLIAM EMERSON.
BOSTON: Printed by MANNING & LORING. 1799.
AN Artillery Election Sermon.PSALM cxlix. 6.LET THE HIGH PRAISES OF GOD BE IN THEIR MOUTH, AND A TWO-EDGED SWORD IN THEIR HAND.THREE interpretations may be given to these words.
1. It was the custom of ancient, as it is of mod|ern, nations, to excite the courage of their armies, when going to battle, by instrumental musick. The Etrurians, for this purpose, used the trumpet; the Lacedemonians, the pipe; and the Egyptians, the drum. The Hebrew people, ever instructed to borrow nothing of idolatrous manners, are here taught to acquire the necessary valour to combat and vanquish their foes, by simply employing their voices in singing the wondrous power and acts of their divine deliverer. This is one interpretation of the words. In its justification is adduced the following passage of the sacred Chronicles.And when he had consulted with the people, he appointed sing|ers unto the Lord, and that should praise the beauty of holiness as they went out before the army, and to say, Praise the Lord, for his mercy endureth forever. And when they began to sing and to praise, the Lord set am|bushments

against the children of Ammon, Moab, and Mount Seir, which were come against Judah, and they were smitten.
2. A second construction of the text supposes the psalm, from which it is taken, to have been composed in honour of some recent successes, that had crowned the Jewish arms, for which the peo|ple of God are exhorted to celebrate his goodness, and, at the same time, to retain their martial hab|its, as a constant terrour to their enemies.
3. Lastly, It is notorious that the Jews, after returning from captivity at Babylon, were infest|ed by a dangerous opposition to their liberties at home and abroad, which, through remarkable as|sistance of the divine providence, they finally crushed. Possibly the writer of this sublime and animated hymn designed to inspirit the patriots of his age to pursue and complete a triumph over their impious adversaries: and this construction is rendered almost probable by the context.
Letthe saints be joyful in glory: let them sing aloud upon their beds. Let the high praises of God be in their mouth, and a two-edged sword in their hand; to execute vengeance upon the heathen, and punishments upon the people; to bind their kings with chains, and their nobles with fetters of iron; to execute upon them the judgment written: this honour have all his saints.
Since it is now impossible, however, to know the author and date of this production, it is equal|ly difficult and needless to