Jovis 25 die Februarii 1668 annoque Regis Caroli Secundi Angl. &c. vicesimo primo this day Sir Samuel Starling and Sir Joseph Sheldon knights and aldermen, formerly appointed to consider the petition of divers poor women in, and about this city ... selling of fish, for liberty to continue their imployments, free from trouble and prosecution, &c., did deliver to this court a report in writing under their hands, how they find the same, and their opinions, the tenor whereof is as followeth ...


 [illustration]  [arms of London]  Turner Mayor. [illustration]  [arms of London] Jovis 25odie Februarii 1668. Annoque Regi CAROLI Secundi Angl. &c. Vicesimo primo.THis Day Sir Samuel Starling, and Sir Joseph Sheldon Knights and Aldermen, formerly appointed to consider the Petition of divers poor Women, in, and about this City, (especially of the Parishes of St. Botolph's Bishops-gate, and Aldgate) selling of Fish, for Liberty to continue their Imployments, free from Trouble and Prosecution, &c. did deliver into this Court a Report in Writing under their Hands, how they find the same, and their Opinions; the Tenor whereof is as followeth, viz.
To the Right Honourable the Lord Mayor, and Court of Aldermen.ACcording to an Order of this Honourable Court of the 23 of December last past; We whose Names are subscribed Committees thereby appointed to consider of the Matters contained in the Petition of divers poor Women, in, and about this City, (especially in the Parishes of St. Botolph's Bishops-gate and Aldgate) Selling of Fish, for Liberty and Protection to continue their said Imployment, and means of Livelihood, free from Disturbance, and Actions at Law, which have lately been prosecuted against them, to their great Vexation and Impoverishment; Do humbly certifie, that having for our better Information called to our Assistance, our Deputies, and the Common Council-Men of the Wards of Portsoaken, and Bishops-gate; And having had also before us some of the Company of Fishmongers, as also the Fisher-Men, who serve the Markets of this City with Fish, and also the Petitioners; and having heard them touching the said Petitioners Complaints; We do find, that the Prosecutions and Trouble occasioned to the Petitioners, have been by the Direction and Order of the Trading Fishmongers, (as they themselves confessed) upon the pretence of the Petitioners Ingrossing, and unlawful obtaining into their Hands, the Fish brought for the use of this City, when in truth their real meaning thereby, is to weary out, and utterly to discourage the said Petitioners from following their Imployments; that thereby they may wholly get the Trade into their own Hands, and Sell their Fish at unreasonable and excessive Rates, and Prises, to the abuse of His Majesties Subjects; For to Us it is made out, that the Fishmongers themselves, as to the Ingrossing of that Victual, and Forestalling of the Market; (not to excuse the Petitioners, who are also gross Offenders,) are as faulty, as the Petitio