{'user': 'Anonymous', 'message': 'Generate a list of requirements for a competitive smart contract auditing platform where companies can upload blockchain smart contracts and then auditors can compete to find vulnerabilities. The auditors will be rewarded for any vulnerabilities they find. The smart contracts that are being audited will only be live on the site for a specific time window.'}
{'user': 'Chat GPT', 'message': "Secure and user-friendly interface: The platform should provide a clean, intuitive, and easy-to-use interface for both companies and auditors. This includes secure login and authentication features, as well as a smooth user experience for uploading, reviewing, and tracking smart contracts. Support for multiple blockchain networks: The platform must be able to support smart contracts from various blockchain networks, such as Ethereum, Binance Smart Chain, Solana, and more, to cater to a diverse range of clients and auditors. Time-window management: The platform should have a built-in feature to set and manage the specific time window for each smart contract, including countdown timers and automated notifications to auditors about the time remaining. Confidentiality and privacy: To protect intellectual property and sensitive information, the platform must have robust encryption and access control mechanisms in place to ensure that only authorized auditors can view and interact with the smart contracts. Vulnerability tracking and submission: The platform should allow auditors to submit discovered vulnerabilities in a structured and standardized format, making it easy for companies to review and address them. There should also be a way to track and resolve duplicate submissions. Reward and reputation system: The platform should implement a transparent and fair system for rewarding auditors based on the severity and impact of the vulnerabilities they find. This may include monetary rewards, reputation points, or other incentives that encourage active participation and high-quality work. Quality control and verification: To maintain the credibility of the platform, it's crucial to have a system in place for verifying the submitted vulnerabilities. This can be done through a combination of automated tools and expert review by a designated team. Communication and collaboration features: The platform should facilitate effective communication between the companies and auditors, including messaging tools, shared workspaces, or document collaboration features. Real-time reporting and analytics: Companies should have access to real-time updates on the progress of the audits, as well as analytics and reporting tools that help them track the performance of auditors and identify trends in vulnerabilities. Legal and compliance considerations: The platform must adhere to relevant regulations and legal requirements, including data privacy laws, intellectual property protection, and any industry-specific guidelines. Scalability and performance: Th