{'user': 'Anonymous', 'message': 'create list of functionality for testing the Report bulider function in Datalore. Report builder documentation: https://www.jetbrains.com/help/datalore/report-builder.html'}
{'user': 'Chat GPT', 'message': "Before you start testing the Report Builder function in Datalore, it's important to familiarize yourself with its features and functionality. Based on the documentation provided, here is a list of functionalities you can test: Notebook selection: Test the ability to choose a specific notebook as the data source for your report. Report creation: Test the process of creating a new report from scratch or by using pre-defined templates. Adding content to the report: Test the addition of various types of content, such as text, images, code snippets, tables, and charts. Formatting and styling: Test the formatting and styling options available for text, images, and other content. This includes font sizes, colors, alignments, and more. Content organization: Test the functionality of organizing content using sections and subsections. Code execution: Test the ability to execute code snippets within the report, and observe if the output is correctly rendered and updated. Data visualization: Test the integration of various types of charts, plots, and other visualizations within the report. Table manipulation: Test the ability to create, format, and manipulate tables within the report, including filtering, sorting, and styling options. Collaboration: Test the real-time collaboration functionality, which allows multiple users to work simultaneously on a single report. Version control: Test the ability to save different versions of a report and revert to previous versions if needed. Export options: Test the various export options available, such as PDF, HTML, and other formats, and verify that the exported files maintain the report's formatting and content. Sharing and publishing: Test the functionality for sharing reports with others, both within and outside of Datalore, as well as options for publishing reports online. Access control: Test the ability to manage permissions and access levels for users who are collaborating on or viewing a shared report. Integration with other JetBrains products: Test the compatibility and integration of the Report Builder with other JetBrains products and services. Performance and stability: Test the overall performance and stability of the Report Builder, particularly when working with large datasets, complex visualizations, or multiple collaborators."}