{'user': 'Anonymous', 'message': 'Having talked to founders, builders, and researchers deeply involved with AI from the organizations that everyone has heard of to the obscure, I\'ve noticed that there are two schools of thought emerging when it comes to how artificial general intelligence will come to be. On one side, there\'s a belief that there\'ll be one model to rule them all. This integrated view supposes that with sufficient training and research, a general purpose model will be born, ready to handle anything we throw at it. On the other side, there\'s a belief that AGI will be modular and through composability we\'ll have AI that can call upon an arsenal of tools, plugins, and workflows to carry out a generic task. In this post, I will present the usual assortment of thoughts, analysis, and predictions on this topic. This time it\'ll all be pre-summarized for maximum digestibility. They can coexist Just like how we live in a world with integrated Apple and modular Android devices, I believe there\'s enough room for two approaches to AGI. One thing we should acknowledge is that while AGI is defined as the ability for AI to carry out any intellectual task a person can, it does not mean that the specific flavour of AGI is efficient at doing all tasks. In other words, AI may specialize and we might find some tasks more suited for an integrated approach and others more suited for a modular approach. OpenAI has shown that they have an appetite for juggling both as they\'ve just announced a more powerful GPT-4 model (integrated) and extensible ChatGPT plugins (modular). It\'s really a spectrum The distinction between the integrated and modular approaches is not actually rigid. As with most spectrums, the extreme ends don\'t work in practice either. Putting the feasibility of building everything into one model aside, the mere existence of "one model to rule them all" is untenable. One integrated superintelligent model would need a vast continuous feed of knowledge and the ability to adapt to perform any given. There are two major issues with this:  1. It\'ll be inefficient and expensive to tap an all-knowing AI to turn on your light bulb  2. It\'s very dangerous to have one all-knowing and powerful black box model that can\'t be reasoned with The other extreme also looks quite hard to achieve. With the modular approach we have a problem where adding the model may suffer --- Continue writing this piece'}
{'user': 'Chat GPT', 'message': 'from diminishing returns. In a fully modular system, the complexity and overhead of managing countless specialized components would make it difficult to maintain efficiency and coherence. It is also possible that the individual modules may struggle to communicate effectively or work harmoniously with each other, creating additional bottlenecks and challenges. The most likely scenario is that AGI will lie somewhere in the middle of this spectrum, incorporating the best aspects of both the integrated and modular appr