{'user': 'Anonymous', 'message': "I need to write a functional specification document on a data integration project to be conducted using Azure Data Factory. The end destination of this data orchestration project is a SQL database and Marketo. The SQL database will be used to assess data quality and track the source of the selective data that is pushed to Marketo at the end. The format of the data that will be pushed to Marketo should be a single table with the following columns: email, products used and prospect type. the sql database should contain two tables, one called contacts and the other called primary contacts. The contact table should contain the emails found from the data sources with metadata fields whereas the source info table should list down the data source of those emails in which each email was enriched with. Here's the description of the project needs with examples: I need to ingest the data from multiple internal data sources used in my company to extract information like products used on an an email level. If for example, in one of the data sources called salesforce opportunities, we find that we have sold product12 to email   who has an account ID 54e, then we will fetch all emails in the salesforce contacts database with the same email domain @abc.com or account ID 54e, and add 'product12' to their 'products used' column for Marketo. If the data ingestion from another data source called ods finds that we have sold product6 to  , then we will update all of the found emails from earlier with product6 in their 'products used' field. All of their products used fields should contain a contatenated string of the unique products used separated by comma. So for our examples, we would have 'product12, product6' in their products used fields. Since   and   were the contacts we sold the products to and it was their email domains or account ids that we used to fetch all other related contacts, they are the primary contacts. This should be indicated in the sql database contact table where their 'primary contact' column in the table have the value set to TRUE. Whereas the other contacts we found in the salesforce contacts database using these primary contact email domains or account ids would have the primary contact field set to false in the contact table of the sql database. Each contact in the contacts table should have an ID. This ID will be stored as a foreign key in the primary contacts table. Ultimately, I should be able to make queries where I join the two tables and see all the primary contacts linked to the non-primary contacts of the contacts table. The primary contacts table should have a column called data source that mentions that data source in which the primary contact was sourced from. This field is not needed in the contacts table since all non-primary contacts would have originally came from the salesforce contacts database. Write the documentation for me extensively in detail for please, with illustrations and data mo