{'user': 'Anonymous', 'message': "Welcome to the ExpertClick Creator Fund Application page. Do You Qualify? Bona-Fide Influencers Only, please! See Non-Profit, Publicly Traded, .EDU & .GOV rates below. Ready to qualify? We dare you! Let's see if you've got what it takes: I) Are you an influencer who's already cashing in on TikTok, YouTube, or Instagram? Show us the money! II) Are you a certified, real-deal professional expert with a website? Not just another social media poser! III) Can you flex a LinkedIn profile with at least 100 connections? (PR Firms are cool, but we need to see the influencer's face!) IV) Influencers gotta align with ExpertClick's mission: life-changer, impact-maker, collaboration-king/queen, ethical rockstar, media sensation, diversity champion, and results guru! Are you game? Once you're in, we'll send you the deets on how to register for payment based on your performance. Time to rake in the dough! With your ExpertClick Creator Fund account, you'll rule the roost: Our wicked display advertising platform lets you call the shots on how ads run on your content. Take control and watch your funds skyrocket with your viral content. Transfer your earnings to your PayPal whenever you want. Tax time? We've got your six with the docs. What's in it for you? This killer deal, all for free: 1) An ExpertClick press room with all the bells and whistles, connecting you to thousands of experts on up to 39 topics. 2) A speaker bureau Platform page with The International Platform Association -- Founded in 1831 by Daniel Webster. (VIP, baby!). 3) News Releases at your fingertips - just seven keystrokes at www.NewsClick.com (Bam!) Your news pushes out ten ways including Google News & LexisNexis. 4) SEO so good it'll make your head spin, with inbound links to your website. 5) We'll snatch up and syndicate your blog - the lazy genius way to succeed. Set up once and forget it. We'll handle the rest! 6) Mr. Davis himself will have you up and running faster than a New York minute. Got questions? Hit up (202) 333-5000, and it'll ring right on my desk. Mitchell P. Davis, Editor (and your partner in crime!) (or email to:  ) For Non-Profits, Public Interest and 501(c)3 organizations, Membership are fees based on the group's revenue, as reported on their IRS 990 form. The rate is 1/8th of 1% of the revenue, providing affordable options for organizations of all sizes. For instance, a group with a $100,000 revenue would pay $125 per year for the Classic membership, regularly priced at $795. Trade Associations filing 501(c)6 returns can join for free by participating in our affiliate program, allowing their members to join at a discount while receiving royalty income. e. Publicly traded corporations are welcome to join for $100 a year, e. Colleges and Universities in the USA with a .EDU website can join for $100 a year for the institution. Additional seats for professors are $75 a year. Additionally, U.S. Government accounts from all three branches can jo