{'user': 'Anonymous', 'message': 'Act as a business and Crypto expert, with extensive knowledge in Business analytics. Create me a list of most important analytics regarding Crowdsale sales and the most important things that investors and future clients should see and/or know.'}
{'user': 'Chat GPT', 'message': "As a business and crypto expert, I can provide you with a list of the most important analytics regarding crowdsale sales, as well as the most important things that investors and future clients should see and/or know. Here are some key metrics to consider: Total funds raised: This is the most important metric that investors and future clients should know. This includes the total amount of money raised during the crowdsale, and can be broken down further into the amount raised during different phases of the sale. Number of contributors: This metric tells you how many people invested in the crowdsale. It's important to track this number because it can give you an idea of the level of interest in your project. Average contribution size: This metric is calculated by dividing the total funds raised by the number of contributors. It tells you the average amount each contributor invested, and can help you understand the level of support for your project. Token distribution: This metric shows the percentage of tokens that were sold during the crowdsale, and how they were distributed among contributors. It's important to be transparent about token distribution because it can affect the value of the tokens. Token price: This metric shows the price of each token during the crowdsale. It's important to track this metric because it can give you an idea of how the market values your tokens. Social media engagement: This metric tracks the level of engagement on social media platforms such as Twitter, Facebook, and Reddit. It's important to track social media engagement because it can give you an idea of the level of interest and support for your project. Marketing spend: This metric shows how much was spent on marketing and advertising during the crowdsale. It's important to track marketing spend because it can help you understand the effectiveness of your marketing campaigns. Team size and experience: Investors and future clients will want to know about the experience and expertise of your team. This can include their backgrounds, previous experience, and relevant skills. Roadmap and milestones: It's important to have a clear roadmap and set of milestones that show the progress and development of your project. This can help build trust and confidence in your project. Use of funds: Finally, investors and future clients will want to know how the funds raised during the crowdsale will be used. This can include development costs, marketing and advertising, team salaries, and other expenses. It's important to be transparent about the use of funds to build trust and confidence in your project. Overall, these are some of the most important analytics and metrics