Acts and laws, passed by the Great and General Court or Assembly of Their Majesties province of the Massachusetts-Bay, in New-England. Begun at Boston, the thirty-first day of May. 1693. And continued by adjournment unto Thursday the sixth day of July following: being the second sessions. Anno regni Guilielmi, et Mariae, regis et reginae, Angliae, Scotia, Franciae, et Hiberniae, quinto.


ACTS AND LAWS, Passed by the Great and General Court or Assembly of Their Majesties Province of the Massachusetts-Bay, in NEW-ENGLAND.
Begun at Boston, the Thirty-first Day of May. 1693. And Continued by Adjournment unto Thursday the Sixth Day of July following: Being the Second Sessions.
Anno Regni Guilielmi, et Mariae, Regis et Reginae, Angliae, Scotiae, Franciae, et Hiberniae, Quinto.
BOSTON. Printed by Bartholomew Green, and Sold by Samuel Phillips. 1693.
AN ACT For Coasting Vessels within the Province.WHEREAS in and by an Act of Parliament, made in the Twenty Fifth Year of the Reign of His late Majesty, KING Charles the Second (Entituled, An Act for the En|couragement of the Greenland and Eastland Trades, and for the better securing the Plantation Trade) Effectual care is taken and provision made for the preventing of Frauds and securing the payment of the
Rates and Duties, granted by said Act, unto His said Majesty, His Heirs and Successors, upon Sugar, Tobacco, Cotton-wool, Indico, Ginger, Fustick, and all other dying wood of the growth, production and Ma|nufacture of His Majesties several Plantations in America, Asia, and Africa; which shall be laden on board any Ship or other Vessel, with intent to be transported and carried into any other of His Ma|jesties Plantations; which said Rates and Duties are to be paid in the respective places of the growth and production of the said goods and Commodities before the Lading thereof.
It is therefore Declared, and Enacted, by the Governour, Council, and Representatives, Convened in General Assembly, and by the Authority of the same,
That any of the before Enumerated Goods and Commodities, which are, or shall, at any time hereafter, be brought into this Province from any other of Their Majesties Plantations, where the same do grow, and are produced, shall and may be transported and carried from Port to Port, and Place to Place, within the Province by Land or Water, for the supply of the Inhabitants and Trade within the same, without any Entry or Clearing, Bond or Certificate, to be given or taken out for the same.
And that no Boat or other Vessel using to pass or trade between port and port, place and place, within the Province onely, and not designed to go elsewhere, shall be obliged to Enter or Clear; Provided that no such Boat or other Vessel do take in or carry more than Six Hogsheads, or one Tun and half of the said Enumerated Commodities, at any one time, turn, or Voyage.
The Masters of all Boats or other Vessels so passing or trading from Port to port, or place to place, within the Province, taking in more