A full and compleat answer against the writer of a late volume set forth entituled A tale in a tub, or, A tub lecture : with a vindication of that ridiculous name called roundheads : together with some excellent verses on the defacing of Cheapside crosse : also proving that it is far better to preach in a boat than in a tub / by Thorny Ailo ...


A full and compleat Answer
against the Writer of a late Volume
set forth, entituled A Tale in a Tub,
or A Tub-Lecture: with a Vindication
of that ridiculous name called
ROUND-HEADS.
Together with some excellent verses
on the defacing of Cheap-side Crosse.
Also proving that it is far better to preach
in a Boat than in a Tub.
By THORNY AILO, Annagram.
 [illustration] 
LONDON,
Printed for F. Cowles, T. Bates, and T. Banks. 1642.
First, The Complaint of the
abused most ridiculous
Round-heads.
COme, brethren, let's deplore our wofull state,
Since all we have done is almost undone:
Our paines and charges both betimes and late
Is like the battry of an Eld•• Gun;
We back againe unto our trade must fall,
Nor shall we be allow'd to preach at all.

And we from Sylla to Charybdis cast
And from Chrybdis back to Sylla hurld,
From wrong to injurie, from griefe that's past,
To woe that's present, we rub through the world,
'Twixt Hawke and Buzzard, we seeme Planet-struck,
'Midst Chance and Fate, bad Fortune and ill Luck.

'Tis manifest that we have done our best,
To bring all wit and learning in disgrace;
Tho Church and Church-men we do still molest,
In hope we each might have a Preachers Place:
Our zeale hath still the House of Prayer deni'd,
And many a Barne and Stable sanctifi'd.

What have we not done? we have rav'd and rail'd,
Vn•ail'd, revil'd, exclaim'd, and made a noyse,
Brake windowes downe, left nothing unassail'd,
And wanting men (to clamour) borrowed boyes:
We have most stoutly play'd the beasts like men,
In hope to be all benefic'd, (But when?)

'Tis said, that they which China dishes make,
Doe burie them in the earth an hundred yeares:
Their Makers being dead, their Heires doe take
Those dishes from the earth, and all our feares
Is, that doe what we can with works and wishes,
Our labours will be like to China dishes.

For now againe the wicked 'gin to rise,
And call us Round-heads, and such scurvie names,
And do our pure profession scandalize
With Libels, Pamphlets, and most true exclaimes:
So that we gape like pining Tantalus,
For all we have done is wroth seant a Lowse.
But why do I thus toll our griefes in Meetre, Prose is mee∣ter
for our capacities by halfe, hang Poets and Poetry, wee
could never endure them, no verse is more sweet than a mans
neck-verse (if it be said in season) and as for Rhime, it is as
much distastefull to us as Reason, Yet I would needs know
by what Reason wee have the name of Round-heads put upon
us; me thinks our heads are no rounder than our fore-fathers:
Some say they call us so, because our tongues do trowle more
roundly than our Ancestours did, and that they did use ho∣nest
S