Sagrir, or, Doomes-day drawing nigh, with thunder and lightening to lawyers in an alarum for the new laws, and the peoples liberties from the Norman and Babylonian yokes : making discoverie of the present ungodly laws and lawyers of the fourth monarchy, and of the approach of the fifth, with those godly laws, officers and ordinances that belong to the legislative power of the Lord Iesus : shewing the glorious work incumbent to civil-discipline, (once more) set before the Parliament, Lord Generall, army and people of England, in their distinct capasities, upon the account of Christ and his monarchy / humbly presented to them by John Rogers ...


〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉. Sagrir. OR Doomes-day drawing nigh, With Thunder and Lightening to LAWYERS. In an Alarum For New Laws, and the Peoples Liberties from the Norman and Babylonian Yokes. Making Discoverie Of the present ungodly Laws and Lawyers of the Fourth Monarchy, and of the approach of the FIFTH; with those godly Laws, Officers and Ordinances that belong to the Legislative Power of the Lord Iesus. SHEWING The Glorious Work Incumbent to Civil-Discipline, (once more) set before the Parliament, Lord Generall▪ Army and People of England, in their distinct cap••ities, upon the Account of Christ and his Monarchy.
Humbly presented to them by JOHN ROGERS, an unfained Servant of Christ, and this Common-wealth in their best Rights, Laws and Liberties, lost many years.
Bread of Deceit is sweet to a man, but afterwards his mouth shall be filled with Gravell.
Prov. 20. 17.Whoso stoppeth his ears at the cry of the poor, he shal cry himself, but shal not be heard.
Prov. 21. 13.They are Brasse and Iron, they are all Corrupters, the Bellows are burnt, the Lead is con∣sumed of the fire, the Founder melteth in vain, for the Wicked are not plucked a∣way.
Ier. 6. 28. 29.〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉 When their Judges (or the greatest Lawyers) are thrown down into stony places, they shall hear my Words, because then they are sweet,
Psal. 141. 6.
Causidicis, Erebo, Fisco, fas vivere rapto;
Militibus, Medico, Tortori, occidere ludo;
Me•iri Astrologis, Pictoribus, atque Poetis.
LONDON, Printed for Tho: Hucklescot, to be sold at the George in Little Brittain. 1654
To the Right Honourable The Lord Gen. CROMVVEL, The Peoples Victorious Champion in England, Ireland, and Scotland.My Lord:HIs EXCELLENCY the Lord Jesus hath sent out his Summons to other Nations also, and the Blade of that Sword (whose handle is held in England) will reach to the very Gates of Rome ore long, but by what Instruments we know not, yet for what end we know, Psal. 72. 2. 4. 13. viz. to breake in peeces the oppressor, and to deliver the poore and needy, yea to spoile the weak-hearted, and be more excellent then the (migh∣tiest) mountains of prey, Psal. 76. 4. 5. this shall goe on till all the earth be filled with his glory. Now my Lord, hitherto he hath honoured you in his War, let him also doe so in his Work which the War hath made way for, viz. in thr