Experiments, notes, &c. about the mechanical origine or production of divers particular qualities among which is inferred a discourse of the imperfection of the chymist's doctrine of qualities : together with some reflections upon the hypothesis of alcali and acidum / by the Honourable Robert Boyle ...



Experiments, Notes, &c. ABOUT THE Mechanical Origine or Production Of divers particular QUALITIES: Among which is inserted a Discourse of the IMPERFECTION OF THE CHYMIST's Doctrine OF QUALITIES; Together with some Reflections upon the HYPOTHESIS OF ALCALI and ACIDUM.
By the Honourable Robert Boyle, Esq Fellow of the R. Society.
LONDON, Printed by E. Flesher, for R. Davis Bookseller in Oxford. 1676.
THE PUBLISHER TO THE Reader.TO keep the Reader from being at all surpriz'd at the Date of the Title-Page, I must inform him, that a good part of the ensuing Tracts were Printed off, and in my custody, the last year; and the rest had come out with them divers moneths ago, if the Noble Author had not been hinder'd from committing them to the Press by the desire and hope of being able in a short time to send them abroad more numerous, and by his being hinder'd to do so partly by Remove, partly by the want of some Papers that were odly lost or spoil'd, and partly by the sick∣ness of himself, and divers of his near

Relations. And some of these Impe∣diments do yet suppress what the Au∣thor intended should have made a part of the Book, which now he suffers to be publish'd without them, though di∣vers of his Papers about some other particular Qualities have been written so long ago, as to have lain for many years neglected among other of his old Writings: Which that he may have both leasure and health to review, and fit for publication, is the ardent wish of the sincere Lovers of Real Knowledge, who have reason to look on it as no mean proof of his constant kindness to Experimental Philosophy, that in these Tracts he perseveres in his course of freely and candidly communicating his Experiments and Observations to the publick, notwithstanding the liberty that hath been too boldly taken to men∣tion them as their own by some later Writers; as particularly by the Compi∣ler of the Treatise, entitul'd Polygra∣phice, who in two Chapters hath allow'd himself to present his Reader with a∣love Fifty Experiments, taken out of

our Authors Book of Colours, without owning any one of them to Him, or so much as naming him or his Book in ei∣ther of those Chapters, nor, that I re∣member, in any of the others. Nor did I think this practice justified by the con∣fession made in the Preface, importing, that the Compiler had taken the parti∣culars he deliver'd from the Writings of others. For, this general and per∣functory acknowledgment neither doth right to particular Authors, nor, by na∣ming them, enables the Reader to know, whether the things deliver'd come from persons fit to be credited or not: And therefore, since 'tis but too likely, that such Concealment of the Names, if