Numerus infaustus a short view of the unfortunate reigns of William the Second, Henry the Second, Edward the Second, Richard the Second, Charles the Second, James the Second.


Numerus Infaustus.
A SHORT VIEW Of the Unfortunate Reigns OF 
WILLIAM the Second.HENRY the Second.EDWARD the Second.RICHARD the Second.CHARLES the Second.JAMES the Second.
—sine Caede, & Sanguine pauci
Descendunt Reges, & siceâ Morte Tyrrani.
London: Printed for Ric. Chis∣well at the Rose and Crown in St. Pauls Church yard, 1689.
LICENSED.
June 25. 89.J. FrasierTO THE READER.MEeting accidentally the other Day with a Passage in Hey∣lins Geography which he sets down in these words. p. 225. I will present you with a fatal Observa∣tion of the Letter H. as I find it thus versed in Albions England.
Not superstitiously I speak, but H this Letter still.
Hath been observed ominous to Eng∣lands good or ill, &c.
A sudden Conceit darted into my Thoughts (from the Remembrance of former Reading) that such Kings of England, as were the Second of

any Name, proved very unfortunate Princes both to themselves, and to their People, Whereupon I consult∣ed the English Chronicles, and out of them I have drawn a summary Narration of the Lives and Reigns of Six Kings. For the Matter of Fact I have faithfully adher'd to the Hi∣story, and yet I have not transcrib∣ed their Method, Style, or Lan∣guage.
The Writing of this was an En∣tertainment for afew of my idle Hours, and perhaps the Reader may be pleased to divert himself for a few Minutes, in the Perusal,
Numerus Infaustus.THE LIFE and REIGN OF WILLIAM the Second, Nick-Named RƲFƲSTHE First William gain'd En∣gland by Conquest, and be∣queath'd it to the Second by Will. By his Invasion he usurped the Right of his Cosin Edgar; and by his Legacy he infringed that of his Heir. He put out Harold the unlaw∣ful Possessor of the Kingdom; and put by Robert his Lawful Successor.
William the Second of that Name, of fewer years than his Brother, but of greater Interest in the Inclinations of his Father, with hasty Steps as∣cended the Throne, entring the Roy∣al Palace at the wrong Door. He indear'd himself to the one by the resemblance of Humours, and the roughness of his Temper; and over∣reach'd the other by the Credulity and Easiness of his Disposition: Gi∣ving no more deference to the Obli∣gation of Promises, than to the Right of Primogeniture. His Vows to God, his Word to his Brother, and his Ingagements to his Subjects, were all plighted with a like sinceri∣ty, and with the same Integrity observ'd, and maintain'd. He was positive and sturdy, and that pass'd for Valour; He was crafty and po∣litick, and that was reported for Wisdom: He was accounted Reli∣gious, when he pursued his own

Temporal Advantages, and was re∣puted prophane, when he invaded the priviledges of the Church: He was immeasurably covetous, only in Or∣der to the being unreasonably pro∣fuse; and under the pretence of Religion he committed the greatest Acts of Enormity and Impiety. His incont