A true account of the unreasonableness of Mr. Fitton's pretences against the Earl of Macclesfield


A true Account of the Ʋnreasonableness of Mr. Fitton's Pretences against the Earl of Macclesfield.ALexander Fitton, Son to William Fitton of Ire∣land, petitions the Right Honourable the Lords Spiritual and Temporal, assembled in this present Parliament, to set aside a Decree of the Lord Chancellor Clarendon, made No∣vemb. 27. 1662; grounded upon Sir Edward Fitton's Devise, by Will, to the present Earl of Macclesfield; whereby the possession of the Estate of Sir Edward, Uncle to the said Earl, and remote Kinsman to the Petitioner, with all the Evidences concerning the same, were decreed to the said Earl, a certain Deed Poll set up by Fitton, and condemned in a Trial at the King's Bench-Bar, upon a feigned Issue, to be vacated, and the Estate to be esta∣blished to the said Earl, from all farther Pretences of Fitton, or other the Defendents, or any claiming under him, or them, unless he or they made out a Title upon that Deed, which was the only Pretence, within twelve months, and the said Fitton was to pay the whole Costs. After this Fitton gives notice of a Trial, but would not pro∣ceed; and when the twelve months were almost expired, and he was under a necessity of trying then, or not at all, he prayed farther time; but was justly denied it, being 'twas manifestly for vexatious Delay. And upon Trial at the Grand Sessions of Chester, being the proper County, the Verdict going against him, the Decree was made Abso∣lute. Having acquiest under this for above one and twenty Years, excepting only that he questioned the Witnesses to the Will for Per∣jury, of which they were acquitted by Verdict, he brings his Bill of Review before the present Lord Keeper; who at first required his paiment of the Costs, before he would put the Earl to answer, till Fitton swore his absolute inability to pay them.
Upon the Earl's Plea and Demurrer, Fitton's Bill was dismist; af∣ter this Fitton petitioned for a Re-hearing; which was granted him, but he did not prosecute it.
The Suggestions upon which his Petition is grounded, with their An∣swers, are these:1. That he had been many Years in possession of the Estate: Whereas he had not been in possession above four Years, and those in the Times of the Usurpation, while the now Earl was in Exile with

his late Majesty. During which time, the said Earl refusing any Com∣position, though 'twas offered him, received not any benefit of that, or of his paternal Estate: And before he was driven out for his Loy∣alty, he was, by virtue of the said Will, in possession of all Sir Ed∣ward's Estate, not in Jointure or Mortgage; and received the Rents of the same, immediatly upon the Death of Sir Edward's Mother, Grandmother to the now Earl; excepting only one part of Gosworth, which was so infested with the Enemy's Troops, that the Earl could not come at it.
2. That the Earl claimed, under a Will of Sir Edward's; The Pe∣titioner under a Sett