An enquiry into the measures of submission to the supream [sic] authority and of the grounds upon which it may be lawful or necessary for subjects to defend their religion.


AN ENQUIRY Into the Measures of SUBMISSION To the SUPREAM AUTHORITY. And of the Grounds upon which it may be Lawful, or Necessary for SUBJECTS to Defend their RELIGION LIVES And LIBERTIES.
LONDON, Printed in the Year 1688.
An Enquiry into the Measures of SUBMISSION, to the Supream Authority: And of the Grounds upon which it may be Lawful or Necess•ry for Subjects, to Defend their RELIGION, LIVES and LIBERTIES.THis Enquirie cannot be Regularly made, but by taking, in the first place, a true and full view of the Nature of Civil Society, and more particularly of the Nature of Supream Power, Whether it is lodg∣ed in one or moe Persons.
1. It is certain that the Law of Nature has put no difference nor sub∣ordina•ion among Men, except it be that of Children to Parents, or of Wives to their Husbands; So that with Relation to the Law of Nature, all Men a•e born free; And this Libert• must still be supposed Entire, un∣less so far as it is limited by Contracts, Provisions and Laws; For a Man can ei•her bind himsel• to be a Servant, or sell himself to be a Slave, by which he becomes in the power of another, only so far as it was provided by the Contract: Since all •hat Liberty which was not ex∣presly given away, remains still entire; so that the Plea for Liberty al∣wayes proves it self, unless it appears that it is given up, or limited by any special Agreement.
2. It is no less certain, that as the light of Nature has plan•ed in all Men a Natural principle of the Love of Life, and of a desire to pr•s•rve it; so the comm•n principles of all Religion agree in this, that GOD hav∣ing set Us in this World, we are bound to preserve that Being, which he has given Us, by all Just and Lawful wayes. Now this Duty of Self-Pr•serv•tion, is exerted in instances of two sorts; The one are in the resisting of violent Aggressors; The other are the taking of J•st Re∣venges of those who have invaded Us so secretly, that We could not prevent them▪ and so violently that We could nor resist them. In which cases the principle of Self preservation warrants us, both to recover what is our own, with just Damages; And also to put such unjust persons out of a capacity of doing the like injuries any more, either to our selves or to any others. Now in these instances of Self-preservation, this diffe∣rence is to be observed, that the first cannot be limited, b• any slow Forms, since a •ressing Danger requires a vigorous Repulse, and cannot admit of delay; whereas the second, of taking Reverges or Reparations, is not of such haste, but that it may be brought under Rules and Forms.
3. The true and original Notion of Civil Society and Government is, that it is a com-promise made by such a body of Men, by which they resign up the right of demanding Reparations, either in the way of Justice, a∣gainst one another, or in t