The fortunate discovery: or, The history of Henry Villars. By a lady of the state of New-York.


THE FORTUNATE DISCOVERY: OR, THE HISTORY OF HENRY VILLARS.
BY A LADY OF THE STATE OF NEW-YORK.
NEW-YORK PRINTED
STOCKBRIDGE: RE-PRINTED BY ROSSETER & WILLARD 1798.
TO THE PUBLIC.ENCOURAGED by the opinion of Friends, whose partiality for the Author has, perhaps, misled their judgment, she humbly ventures to present the following work to her fair Countrywomen. She trusts the heart of sensibility will not find it desti|tute of merit. Imperfections it undoubtedly has—for what human performance is free of them? But, as it is her first public at|tempt, not originally meant for the press, she hopes the eye of criticism will be turned aside, and such allowances made, as can|dour may authorize, and liberality suggest. Of one point she is conscious—that a good intention has guided her pen—and as no|thing will be found in it, militating against the most rigid principles of virtue, she hopes for indulgence at least, if she is not honour|ed with approbation, or encouraged by ap|plause.
State of New-York, March, 1798.THE FORTUNATE DISCOVERY: OR, THE HISTORY OF HENRY VILLARS.IN a remote village in the northern parts of the State of New-York, on the side of a river beautifully shaded with ancient oaks, around whose branches the bellvine and honey-suckle wantonly crept, stood a small house, or cottage, environed with hawthorn: be|neath whose foliage, the meandering •••ulet softly stole: Nature had made 〈◊〉 the deficiency of Art, to render this 〈◊〉 habitation truly delightful 〈◊〉 At 〈…〉mmencement of the contest with 〈…〉nd, Mr. Villars, with his amiable
family, retired to this sequestered spot, to shun the din of war; troubles in ear|ly life, had fixed a settled melancholy in his disposition, that suited best with retirement, particularly at this time, when the feeling heart must be ever af|fected with the distresses of others. Mr. Villars was a Briton, but prepossessed in favour of America: and though he wished to see her independent, he felt for his countrymen. Mrs. Villars was an amiable woman, and still handsome; though trouble had greatly impaired her charms: her now darling employ|ment, was forming the young mind of her daughter Louisa, whom she saw daily improving; she was now entering her seventeenth year, and her beauty, though excelled by few, was her least perfection. Mr. Villars equally em|ployed his time with two fine boys, whose good qualities promised amply to repay his care; in this manner they had passed the three first years of the 〈◊〉 and enjoyed a tranquility, little kno•• at those times; when they were 〈…〉 on hearing the enemy fast appr••••|ing, and for many days, they 〈…〉frequent skirmishes at a little distance. One evening Louisa, accompanied by her younger brother Charles, was walk|ing on the banks of the river, the sun just sinking below the horizon, the chant|ing of the birds, and the beauty of the evening, lulled her into a pleasing reve|rie,