The sacrifice a tragedy / by the Honorable Sir Francis Fane.


THE
SACRIFICE.
A
TRAGEDY.
By the Honorable
Sir FRANCIS FANE,
Knight of the BATH.
The Second Edition.
Quae poterunt unquam satis expurgare cicutae
Ni melius dormire putem, quam scribere Versus.
Hor.LONDON,
Printed by I. R. for Iohn Weld at the Crown
between the Temple Gates in Fleetstreet,
MDCLXXXVII.
Licensed,
May 4. 1686.Ro. L'Estrange.To the Right Honorable
CHARLES
EARL of Dorset and Middlesex, &c.
Lord Lieutenant of the County of Sussex.My Lord,HAving long since devoted my self to a
Country Life, and wanting Patience to
attend the leisure of the Stage, I have
adventur'd to exposed this Tragedy, with∣out
Action; but I shall never be much asham'd of it,
since it has had the Honor of your Lordships Appro∣bation,
whose admirable Genius in Poetry, has long
since given you a just Title to preside over all Causes
of that kind, and whose Judgement never Errs, but
when 'tis seduc'd by your Extraordinory Candor. Yet to
have a share in your Lordship's Mercy, rather than
all the Clamorous Applauses of the Vulgar, shall ever
be esteemed a greater Honor to,
My Lord,Your Lordships most Obliged and
Humble Servant,
FRANCIS FANE.TO THE
AUTHOR.WHen o'r the World the mild Augustus Reign'd,
Wit's Empire too the Roman Poets gain'd:
So when the first auspicious James possest
Our Brittish World, and in Possessing blest;
Our Poets wore the Lawrels of the Age,
While Shakespear, Fletcher, Johnson Crown'd. the Stage
And tho our Caesars since have rais'd the State,
Our Poetry sustains the Roman Fate.
In less Essays successful we have been,
But lost the Nobler Province of the Scene:
Perverters, not Reformers of the Stage,
Deprav'd to Farce, or more fantastick Rage.
How therefore shall we Celebrate thy Name,
Whose Genius has so well retriev'd our Fame?
Whose happy Muse such Wonders can impart,
And temper Shakespear's Flame with Johnson's Art.
Whose Characters set just Examples forth;
Mix Humane Frailties with Heroick Worth:
Shunning th' Extreams in Modern Heroes seen,
Than God's more perfect, or more frail than Men.
With Reason, Nature, Truth our Minds you treat,
A•d shew a Prince irregularly Great.
A generous Soul storm'd by impetuous Love,
Which yet from Virtue's Centre scorns to move.
Thus while the Hero does himself defeat,
Your Tamerlane is rendred truly GREAT,
When by his Troops whole Empires were o'rthrown,
'Twas Fortune's Work, this Conquest was his own.
Your Monarch rages in Othello's Strain,
Iago in Ragalzan lives again.
Not Hecuba like your Despina Rag'd,
Like Her, for Empire and a Monarchs Fate engag'd▪
With Iphigene your Fair Irene vies,
And falls a more lamented Sacrifice.
Your Style, tho just, subservient to the Thought;
Your Numbers in Majestic Plainness wrought.
Methinks I see the Pyrat-Wits of France
Already to this Noble Prize Advance:
An Artifice in which they most excel,
But still, the Sense they steal, they Husband well▪
Thus Sir, they'l melt your Oar, tho not Refine;
While each rich Though