The substance of a sermon, being an incouragement for Protestants or a happy prospect of glorious success: with exhortations to be valiant against our enemies, in opposing the bloody principle of papists, and errors of popery, &c. Occasionally on the Protestants victory over the French and Irish papists before London-Derry, in raising that desperate siege. By Mr. Walker minister, and governor of the city.


The Substance of a
SERMON,
Being an Incouragement for PROTESTANTS, or a Happy
Prospect of Glorious Success: With Exhortations to be Va∣liant
against our Enemies, in opposing the Bloody Prin∣ciples
of PAPISTS, and Errors of Popery, &c. Occasionally on the Protestants Victory over the
FRENCH and IRISH Papists
BEFORE
London-Derry,
In Raising that Desperate SIEGE.
By Mr. WALKER Minister, and Governor of the City.
 [illustration] 
London, Printed by A. Milbourn in  Green-Arbour-Court in the Little-Old-Baily. 1689.
Licensed, June the 5th. 1689.
Entred according to Order▪
A Glorious Prospect of the Pro∣testants
Happiness, &c.Judges VII. 20.The Sword of the Lord, and of Gideon.WE may through all the Course of Holy Scripture,
plainly behold that when the Almighty design∣ed
to work out a Deliverance to his People, he
made them sensible that it was not so much the
Arms of Flesh, as his immediate power that saved them.
The Israelites at the time that God raised up Gideon the Son
of Joash to be an Instrument in his Hand of saving them,
were oppressed by the Midianites & Amalakites, a cruel and
wastful People that spared no means that force or fraud
could invent to vex them, and lay their Country desolate,
to draw them away to Idolatry, and the Worship of strange
Gods, which their Fathers had not known; and least they
should seem to attribute the Victory to Multitudes, and not
give the sole Glory to the God of Battles; this great Cap∣tain
had an express Command, to try first their Courage
and Resolution, and after that proving too many, they
were selected at the Water-Brook, where three hundred
only were chosen, and with that small number, the mighty
Army was overthrown, destroyed, broken, and confoun∣ded
at first onset by the breaking of Pitchers, & sounding of

Trumpets, and crying, The Sword of the Lord, and of Gi∣deon,
Judges 7. 20. Let but the Lord arise, (says Holy Da∣vid)
and his Enemies shall be scattered: (And again) God is
our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble: There∣fore
will we not fear though the earth be moved, and though the
Mountains be carried into the midst of the Sea; though the
Waters thereof roar, and be troubled, Psal. 46. 1, 2, 3. we find
that when Samaria was Besieged, and even Famine raged in
the City to a degree, that a Woman was forced to eat the
Fruits of her Womb, when all visible means failed, and an
Insulting Enemy every day expected to enter the City, and
bring it to final Desolation; that only a noise being heard
in the Hills and Mountains, raised the Siege, and gave a∣bundance
of plenty to the besieged, ac