Two treatises in the one of which the nature of bodies, in the other, the nature of mans soule is looked into in way of discovery of the immortality of reasonable soules.


TWO TREATISES. IN THE ONE OF WHICH, THE NATVRE OF BODIES; IN THE OTHER, THE NATVRE OF MANS SOVLE; IS LOOKED INTO: IN WAY OF DISCOVERY, OF THE IMMORTALITY OF REASONABLE SOVLES.

〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉
〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉,
〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉;

Animae naturam, absque totius natura,
Sufficienter cognosci posse, existimas?
Plato in Phoedr.AT PARIS, Printed by GILLES BLAIZOT.
M. DC. XLIIII. WITH PRIVILEDGE.
TO MY SONNE KENELME DIGBY.SONNE,The calamity of this time being such, as hath bereaft me of the ordinary meanes of expressing my affection to you; I haue beene casting about, to find some other way of doing that in such sort, as you may receiue most profit by it. Therein I soone pitched vpon this consideration; That Parents owe vnto their children, not onely materiall subsistence for their bodie; but much more, spirituall contributions to their better part, their minde. I am much bound to God, that he hath endewed you with one very capable of the best instructions: and withall, I do therefore esteeme my selfe obliged, to do my vtmost for moulding it to its most aduantage. If my ayme therein do proue successefull, you will with more ease digest those inconueniences and distresses, which already you haue begun to be acquainted with, and that threaten dayly worse vnto you. For how can a man suffer his hart to be deiected att the priuation of any temporall blessinges, whiles he considereth the inanity of them; and that nothing is worthy his serious thought, but what may accompany him to his eternall ha∣bitation? What needeth he feare the desolations of warre, and the worst that they can do against him, who haue his estate in their power, when he may be rich with a much nobler treasure, that none but himselfe can robbe him of? Without doubt, he that shall seriously reflect vpon the excellency of his owne nature, and vpon

the admirable perfect and happy state he shall most certainely arriue vnto, if he but weane himselfe from those worldly im∣pediments, that here clogge his soules flight; can not choose but looke with a disdainefull eye, vpon the glattering tryfles, that weake spirits delight themselues withall. If he deeme it not re∣quisite (as of old, the famous wise man did) to throw away those encumbrances, to the end he may the more freely attend vnto diuine contemplations (for worldly goods, duely vsed, may be very aduantagious both to ones selfe, and to others) yet at the least, he will not repine att fortunes recalling of what she formerly had but lent him, and but permitted him the vse of.
To the end then that you may be armed against the worst that may arriue vnto you, in this vnhappy state of affaires, in our distressed country; I send you those considerations of the nature and Immortality of humane soules, which of late, haue beene my chiefe entertainement.