A plaine explanation of the vvhole Revelation of Saint John Very necessary and comfortable in these dayes of trouble and affliction in the church. Penned by a faithfull preacher, now with God, for more priuate vse, and now published for the further benefit of the people of God.


A PLAINE EXPLANATION OF THE WHOLE REVELATION OF SAINT JOHN.
Very necessary and comfortable in these dayes of trouble and affliction in the Church.
Penned by a faithfull Preacher, now with God, for more priuate vse, and now published for the further benefit of the people of GOD.
There came a voyce from heauen, saying: Come away from her, my people, that ye be not partakers of her sinnes; lest ye be partakers of her plagues,Reu. 18. 4. [illustration] 
Here are they that keepe the commandements of God, and the Faith of Iesus,Reuel. 14. 12.Alas, alas, wat great City is in one houre come to desolation,Reuel. 18. 16. 17.The Beast, and the false Prophets, were aliue cast into a Lake of fire, &c.Reuel. 19. 20.Printed at London by T. S. for Nathaniel Newbery, 1622,
〈1 page duplicate〉To the Christian Reader.WHatsoeuer things were written a∣fore time, were written for our learning, that we through patience and comfort of the Scriptures, might haue hope. Rom. 15. 4. And the Reuelation of Iesus Christ, which God gaue vnto him, to shew vnto his Seruants, Reu. 1. 1. was giuen and written for the comfort of the Church in her latest and greatest troubles, and sharpest afflictions and persecutions; wherein certes Gods loue and care of his Church, is abundantly manifested. For not any of the Primitiue persecutions, or latter Antichristian Seducions, and bloudy Combustions, wherewith at this day the Church is turmoyled: But they are foretold, with their Issue and Euents in this Booke; that so the chosen and elect of God might not be carried to euerlasting perdition, or o∣uerwhelmed with sorrow and displeasure in their seeming inex∣tricable temporary calamities.
Many Commentaries and Expositions of this Booke haue beene published by very Reuerend and excellent learned men, no doubt to the great comfort of Gods people; and therefore the lesse need there may be imagined to be of any more: but, (besides that this is more briefe and plain vpon the whole Book then any other; and so is more vsefull for the most, that haue most vse of it; if it shall serue but as a watch-word, euen now to direct Gods peo∣ple in their perplexities, whether to haue recourse for comfort and consolation, and so incite them to a more diligent reading, and
 studious search of this holy Reuelation, it will be a sufficient a∣pollogy for this publication; especially at this time; when so many wauer betweene hope and dispaire of the good successe, of the af∣faires of Christendome; which so nearely concerne the welfare of the Church, as that the Enemies begin to looke bigge againe; daily expecting the ruine of it, as if the hope of Gods people were vaine; or as if by their wicked pollicy and power they made sure account to di