The true light owned and vindicated, and the believers in it defended and blasphemy and blasphemers justly detected


THE TRUE LIGHT Owned and Vindicated, AND THE BELIEVERS IN IT DEFENDED: AND Blasphemy and Blasphemers Justly Detected.
Rom. 2. 1.Therefore thou art inexcusable, O Man, whoever thou art, that judged: For wherein thou judgest another, thou con∣demnest thy self; for thou that judgest, doest the same things.
LONDON, Printed and Sold by T. Sowle, in White-Hart-Court in Gracious-Street, and at the Bible in Leaden-Hall-Street, 1699.
TO THE READER.Friendly Reader,ONE Eminent Proof of a Christian is, a Peace∣able Spirit, and his living, as much as in him lies, at Peace with all Men: Indeed it is a State and Station so desireable by us, that had we met with Reflections and Revilings which were only Personal, we value the Peace and Comfort of Retire∣ment so much, that we should have willingly lain down under it, with only speaking to the Persons that have injured us: But the occasion of our now appearing is Doctrinal, and in Defence of the Holy Light within, which some Priests in Norfolk have Charged with Exposing Us, the Followers of it, to Blasphemy, as taught by us.
Now our Opposers pretend to Accuse Us out of the Writings of some of our Friends, but have hitherto dealt unfairly by us, in refusing us the Knowledge of those Books, and their Pages, wherein they are dis∣satisfied; which, if they had granted us, it might have made way for an Amicable Satisfaction.
We have been Conversant with some of the Wri∣tings of our Friends, but know not any Book (to be just to the Author) that has any such gross Conse∣quence to be drawn from it; if we met with any thing of that Nature, we should with Sincerity Detest the same: And we have desired Justice in this respect, viz. To know the Name of the Author, Book and Page; but they have denied us, which makes us conclude, that it is a contrived Business by them, 1st. To cast that Scandal and Odium upon us, and then endeavour to Incense the Government against us. And indeed their Practice in our Country of Norfolk, to stir up some Mgistrates against us, and to carry it further, viz. To Incense the Government, doth sufficiently shew, that it was a design: Yet we know there is an Over-ruling Power, that bounds and limits all things, and before him we spread our Cause, and doubt not, but he will be our Helper in every Exercise, that comes up∣on us.
And this know, tho' we have returned the Charge upon these our Adversaries, it is not that we delight in Controversie, but to Vindicate that Glorious Truth, the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ hath made known unto us.
And now we Appeal to all People, that have had knowledge of us, whether we have Acted like Blas∣phemers: For God knoweth our Hearts and Consciences, we are not Conscious to our selves herein.
This is our tender and just Request to all that shall read this ensuing Treatise, Lay aside all Partiality, and (Noble Berean-like) examine the Testimony