The charitable Christian, or, A word of comfort from the God of comfort, to such as are truly poor and a word of Christian counsel and advice to such as are worldly rich, stirring them up to the Christian duty and practice of charity : with some powerful motives and perswasions thereunto, drawn from the Word of God, to convince men of the necessity of this Christian duty, with the sore evils and calamities which are threatned in the Word of God against unmerciful men / published by a lover of hospitality.


The Charitable CHRISTIAN OR, A word of Comfort from the God of Com∣fort, to such as are truly POOR. And a word of Christian Counsel and Ad∣vice to such as are worldly Rich, stirring them up to the Christian Duty and Practice of Charity. With some powerful Motives and Perswasi∣ons thereunto, drawn from the Word of God, to convince men of the necessity of this Christian Duty; with the sore Evils and Calamities which are threatned in the Word of God against un∣merciful men.
The eighth Edition with Additions.
Psalm 41.1, 2, 3.Blessed is be that considereth the Poor, the Lord will deliver him in time of trouble. The Lord will preserve him, and keep him alive, and he shall be blessed upon the earth. The Lord will strengthen him upon the bed of languishing, and will make his bed in his sickness.
Published by a Lover of Hospitality.
London, Printed for Elizabeth Andrews, at the White Lion near Pye Corner. 1662,
Courteous Reader.THere is lately published an excellent and pro∣fitable Sermon, called, Christs first Sermon, on The necessity, duty and practice of Repentance opened and applied. Also Christs last Sermon, o• The everlasting estate and condition of all men the world to cont••. Likewise the Christians blesse Choice. And the Christians best Garment, or, Th• putting on of the Lord Jesus Christ. Also Hea∣vens Glory, and Hells Horrour, or the Parable be∣tween Dives and Lazarus opened and applied. V•∣ry godly Books, and are but three pence price.
There are likewise seven other small Books, all them very godly, and very comfortable for thy so• One is entituled, Englands Faithful Physician. T• second, Dooms-day at hand. The third, the dread character of a drunkard. The fourth, the Father last Blessing to his children. The fifth, The sin Pride arraigned and condemned. The sixth, Th• Plain Mans Plain Path way to Heaven. The sevent The Black Book of Conscience. All very necessa• for these licentious times, and each of them bei• but of two pence price. They are to be sold Elizabeth Andrews, at the White Lion near Py Corner.
The Charitable Christian.1 Tim. 6.17, 18, 19.Charge them that are rich in this world, that they be not high minded, nor trust in uncertain riches, but in the living God, which is giveth us richly all things we enjoy.
That they do good, that they be rich in good works, ready to distribute, willing to communicate.
Laying up in store for themselves a good foundati∣on against the time to come, that they may lay hold on Eternal Life.
THe Ble