True religion makes the best loyalty discovered and recommended in a sermon, prepar'd for that Assembly which intended to meet at St. Michael's Cornhil, April 21, 1682, and afterwards preach'd at the New Church in Westminster, May 29, being the happy day of His Majesty's birth and return, and now published, at the earnest request of the gentlemen of that vestry / by Thomas Jekyll ...


True Religion makes the best Loyalty.
Discovered and Recommended in a SERMON Prepar'd for that Assembly which intended to meet at St. Michael's Cornhil, April 21. 1682.
And afterwards Preach'd at the New Church in WESMINSTER, May 29. being the Happy Day of His Majesty's BIRTH and RETURN.
And now publish'd, at the earnest Request of the Gentlemen of that VESTRY,
By THOMAS JEKYLL, M.A and Preacher at the said New Church in Westminster.
LONDON; Printed for Jonathan Robinson, at the Golden Lion in St. Paul's Church-yard. MDCLXXXII.
PROV. 24.21.My Son, fear thou the Lord, and the King; and meddle not with them that are given to change.
THo' Solomon was himself a Sove∣reign Prince, whose Honour and safety consisted as much in the Loyalty and Faithfulness of his Subjects and People, as ever any Kings did; yet these words are not spoken by him to serve a Turn, and to support or enlarge his own particular Power and Greatness, but as a necessary Means and Rule to establish that Peace and Tranquillity, in which the Happiness and Wel∣fare of any Nation or Kingdom doth consist. Had we indeed none but Kings and Rulers to recommend this Duty to us, we might possibly suspect it guilty of too much Partiality and De∣sign; but we find it quite otherwise, for the pra∣ctice of it hath been in all Ages still urged upon us, with as much Zeal and Faithfulness, even by those who have been the most oppress'd by it, as ever it was by those who have had the largest
share or Interest in it. The greatest Princes and Monarchs upon Earth cannot well desire a larger Power and Dominion than what the Scriptures give them, and all good Men own and acknowledg to belong to them; nor can the wisest Politicians and Statesmen in the World, either invent or desire more firm and solid, more strong and certain, more cogent and convincing Arguments to Loyalty and Subjection, than what are given us by St. Peter and St. Paul. And it's very well known how much their Actions were agreeable to their Doctrines, since all those Hardships and Pressures which they laboured under, could never provoke them to make any Attempts whatsoever against the Government they were either born or liv'd under. It's true, there was a general Clamour rais'd against them, and the rest of the Apostles, as Men of dange∣rous Spirits and Principles, Enemies to all the Civil Governments in the World, and therefore not to be endured amongst Men; but we never find any such thing prov'd upon them; bring them but to the Test, and the quite contrary ap∣pears;
 as it did by St. Paul, when so solemnly arraign'd for such things before Felix the Gov