Of industry, in five discourses viz. in general, in our general calling as Christians, in our particular calling as gentlemen, in our particular calling as scholars / by Isaac Barrow ...


 [illustration] ISACUS BARROW S.T.P. REG. MATI. A SACRIS COLL. S.S. TRINI. CANTAB PRAEFEC. NEC NON ACAD. EIUSDEM PROCANC: 1676. [portrait] 
OF
INDUSTRY,
IN
Five Discourses: Viz.
In General.In our General Calling,
as Christians.In our Particular Calling,
as Gentlemen.In our Particular Calling,
as Scholars.
By ISAAC BARROW, D. D. late
Master of Trinity-College in Cambridge.
Published by His Grace, JOHN
Lord Arch-bishop of Canterbury.
LONDON,
Printed by I. H. for Brab. Aylmer, at the
Three Pigeons, over-against the Royal
Exchange, in Cornhill, 1693.
The Bookseller's
ADVERTISEMENT.AT the Desire of several Per∣sons,
I have here Re∣printed
Five Excellent Dis∣courses
of the Learned Dr. Isaac
Barrow: which were formerly
Printed in the Third Volume of
His Works in Folio (and which
Volume is, at present, become very
scarce) being too dear and bulky
for every one, do suppose this small
Volume may come into more Hands,
and thereby become very Usefull to
all sorts of Persons, by stirring up
an honest and industrious Spirit in∣to
the Age.
B.A.DISCOURSES
OF
Industry in general.ECCLES. IX. 10.Whatsoever thy hand findeth to doe,
doe it with all thy might.IN St. Paul's Epistle to the Ro∣mans,
among divers excellent
rules of life, prescribed by
that great Master, this is one,
〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉.Be not
slothfull in business, or to business;
And in the 2d Epistle to the Corin∣thians,
among other principal ver∣tues,
or worthy accomplishments,
for abounding wherein the Apostle
commendeth those Christians, he
ranketh all diligence, or industry

exercised in all affairs and duties in∣cumbent
on them: this is that ver∣tue,
the practice whereof in this
moral precept or advice the Royal
Preacher doth recommend unto us;
being indeed an eminent vertue, of
very general use, and powerfull in∣fluence
upon the management of all
our affairs, or in the conduct of our
whole life.
Industry, I say, in general touch∣ing
all matters incident, which our
hand findeth to doe, that is, which
dispensation of providence doth of∣fer,
or which choice of reason em∣braceth,
for employing our active
powers of soul and body, the Wise∣man
doth recommend; and to pres∣sing
the observance of his advice
(waving all curious remarks either
Critical or Logical upon the words)
I shall presently apply my discourse,
proposing divers considerations apt
to excite us thereto; onely first let
me briefly describe it, for our bet∣ter
apprehension of its true notion
and nature.

By Industry we understand a se∣rious
and steady application of mind,
joined with a vigorous exercise of
our active faculties in prosecution
of any reasonable, honest, usefull de∣sign,
in order to the accomplish∣ment,
or attainment of some con∣siderable
good; as for instance, a
Merchant is industrious, who conti∣nueth
intent and active in driving
on