The doctrine of sovereign grace opened and vindicated: and also the consistency and duty of declaring divine sovereignty, and mens impotency, while yet we address their consciences with the warnings of truth, and calls of the Gospel. / By Isaac Backus, Pastor of a church in Middleborough. ; [Two lines from Romans]


THE DOCTRINE OF SOVEREIGN GRACE Opened and Vindicated.
THE DOCTRINE OF SOVEREIGN GRACE Opened and Vindicated: AND ALSO The Consistency and Duty of declaring DIVINE SOVEREIGNTY, and Mens IMPOTENCY, while yet we address their Con∣sciences with the Warnings of Truth, and Calls of the Gospel.
By ISAAC BACKUS, Pastor of a Church in Middleborough.
I am not ashamed of the Gospel of Christ; for it is the Power of God unto Salvation, to every one that believeth.
Rom. i. 16.PROVIDENCE, Rhode-Island: Printed by JOHN CARTER, at Shakespear's Head, 1771.
THE DOCTRINE OF SOVEREIGN GRACE Opened and Vindicated.PART I.THE chief occasion of the ensuing dis∣course is this: About four years ago, on a view of the prevailing disposition in multitudes, either to pry into futuri∣ties, to the neglect of present duty, or to contend about religion, instead of regarding the life and practice of it, while the vanities of time carried the world before them, I was moved to publish a discourse from James ii. 22. with this title, True Faith will produce good Works. And through the whole endeavoured to handle the glorious truths of the gospel in a practical way; and had as little expectation of being publicly attacked therefor as for any thing I ever wrote: And I was not alone in this thought, for a worthy minister in Great-Britain says, in a letter, Your sermon on the Fruits of Faith is well adapted to silence gain∣sayers. Yet how often are we disappointed in this evil world!

Mr. Daniel Martin, Elder of a Baptist Church in Rehoboth, published a piece last fall, intituled, Some Meditations on the plain Testimony of the ho∣ly Scriptures, relating to the elect or chosen of God, &c. wherein, after inserting as a motto our Saviour's caution to take heed how and who we hear, he begins thus: Having received the foregoing caution and instruction from the most wonderful Counsellor that ever spoke on earth. I have made the following observations on se∣veral points of doctrine delivered by Mr. Isaac B—s, in his book intituled, True Faith will produce good Works, wherein he hath made ma∣ny worthy observations, and given divers good instructions; but to my sorrow he hath advanc∣ed several points of doctrine, which appear to me to be in opposition to the sense and pure meaning of the holy scriptures. And he goes on to bend all his force through his whole per∣formance against the peculiar doctrines of sove∣reign grace.
Several reasons were suggested, in my own mind and by others, against making any reply to this piece at all: As that it is so plainly erroneous, that it was not likely to do much hurt; that there is no end of controversy; and it is peculiarly dis∣agreeable for one Ba