Three sermons to little children. On the nature and beauty of the dutiful temper. (Published by desire.) / By Samuel Spring, A.M. Pastor of the North Church, in Newbury-Port.


THREE SERMONS TO Little Children. ON THE NATURE AND BEAUTY OF THE DUTIFUL TEMPER. [PUBLISHED BY DESIRE.] BY SAMUEL SPRING, A. M. Pastor of the North Church, in NEWBURY-PORT.
BOSTON: PRINTED AND SOLD BY NATHANIEL COVERLY Opposite the WHITE-HORSE M.DCCLXXXIII.
SERMON I.EPHESIANS VI.1.Children, obey your PARENTS in the LORD, for this is right.
THE general design is already known. But, as the pulpit is rather in dept to little Children, my particular design is to preach to them. I have often thought of taking this method, to impress their tender minds with the importance of early duty, in consequence of seeing them so atten|tive to instruction, when distinguished by a particular address: and, as often have been afraid of the attempt, left I should not treat things according to their capacities, without being too free with the public rights of others. Their little opening minds are capa|ble of receiving some of the most im|portant truths of the gospel when they are easily connected, and plainly ex|pressed. And, though I cannot claim that tenderness, and instructive skill that are equal to the subject, yet I am

induced to address them in this public manner, because I hope the divine blessing will succeed my intention, in answer to the unwearied prayers of christians for their salvation. My hopes of some measure of success, are also strengthened from this considerati|on, that all faithful persons who love to form the minds of little children for Christ, and give them to him with nurturing hands, will gratefully improve their advantages, in every department, to extend, and widen these instructions, and add a lasting influence to them, with line upon line, and precept upon precept, repeatedly, and continually.
The method will contain two gene|ral branches: in the first place, I shall shew children, what it is to obey their parents in the Lord: and secondly in what respect, it is right or beautiful. And as the principal design, is to give instruction to little children, I take it for granted, the candid, improved mind will chuse to hear them addressed, in their own plain, and familiar style: we shall therefore indulge freedom of thought, and simplicity of expression.
And now, my dear children, since the sermon is to be preached to you, I ask your diligent and careful attention

to it. I hope you will remember this is the Lord's day—that yo• a•e in the house of God—and that he is now pre|sent to observe your conduct, and take notice of all your thoughts. I hope you will also remember that it is not the word of man, but of the Lord, that is now to b• be delivered to you▪ and therefore that he calls upon you to take heed how you hear. Christ now speaks in th•s manner; "•ittle children keep yo••se•ves from idols," and give me your hearts. Gi•e them this moment, that you ma• obey your p