Votes of both Houses of Parliament::  with sundry articles, or acts of Parliament to confirme the same. Taken out of the records of the Tower. Also, two orders of both Houses of Parliament: the one, to all high sheriffes, justices of the peace, and other officers, within 150. miles of the city of Yorke: the other, in particular to the high sheriffs, justices of the peace, and other officers within the county of Lancaster. In generall, to all the counties of England, and Dominion of Wales. Die Sabbathi 28. Maii 1642. Ordered by the Lords in Parliament, that these votes with the articles be forthwith printed and published. Io. Browne Cleric. Parliamentorum.


VOTES OF BOTH Houses of Parliament: With sundry Articles, or Acts of Par∣liament to confirme the same.
Taken out of the Records of the Tower.
Also, Two Orders of both Houses of PARLIAMENT: The one, To all High Sheriffes, Justices of the peace, and other Officers, within 150. Miles of the City of YORKE: The other, In particular to the high Sheriffs, Justices of the peace, and other Officers within the County of Lancaster. In generall, to all the Counties of England, and Dominion of Wales.
Die Sabbathi 28. Maii 1642.Ordered by the Lords in Parliament, that these Votes with the Articles be forthwith printed and published.
Io. Browne Cleric. Parliamentorum.
LONDON, Printed by E. Griffin, for Cristopher Latham. 1642
Die Veneris 20. Maii, 1642.Resolved upon the Question, by the Lords and Commons, &c.THat it appeares that the King (seduced by wic∣ked Counsell) intends to make warre against the Parliament, who (in all their consultations and actions) have proposed no other end unto themselves but the care of his Kingdoms, and the performance of all duty and loyalty to his person.
Resolved, &c.
That whensoever the King maketh warre upon the Parliament, it is a breach of the trust reposed in him by his people, contrary to his oath, and tending to the disso∣lution of this government.
Resolved, &c.
That whosoever shall serve or assist him in such warres, are Traitours, by the fundamentall Laws of this Kingdom; and have been so adjudged by two Acts of Parliament.
Out of the Roll of the Parliament held at West∣minster, 11 R. 2.ITem, by the said encroachment, the aforesaid Alexander Arch-bishop of Yorke, Robert de Vere Duke of Ireland, Michael de la Poole Earle of Suffolke, Robert Tressilian false Justice, and Nichol. Brembre false Knight of London, have done that▪ whereas at the last Parliament, all the Lords and other Wise men and Commons there assembled, seeing the losse of the King and his kingdome eminent, as well for the perils and mischiess aforesaid, as that the King was departed from the Counsell of the King∣dome, and hearkened wholly to the Counsell of the aforesaid maleta∣ctors and traytors, as also because the French King with his Royall power was shipt upon the Sea, ready to have come into England to de∣stroy the Kingdome, and the English tongue, and that no ordinance nor government was then est