The copie of the Lord Fitz-gerralds letter intercepted: discovering a bloody and most horrible plot to kill, burn, and spoyl all the Protestants, by the army of the rebels in Ireland. Which letter was sent to his cosen Sir Luke Fitzgerrald. Published for the kingdome to see the present horrid designes of the papists in Ireland.


THE COPIE OF THE Lord Fitz-gerralds LETTER Intercepted: DISCOVERING A Bloody and most horrible Plot to kill, burn, and spoyl all the Protestants, by the Army of the Rebels in IRELAND.
Which Letter was sent to his Cosen Sir LUKE FITZ GERRALD.
Published for the Kingdome to see the present hor∣rid designes of the Papists in Ireland.
March 31LONDON, Printed by Jane Coe. 1647.
The Copie of the Lord FITZ-GERRALDS Letter JNTERCEPTED. Discovering a bloody and most horrible plot to kill, burn, and spoyle the English Protestants, by the Army of the Rebels in Jreland.To his worthy Cosen Sir LUKE FITZ-GERRALD, Knight.NOBLE COZEN,DIrections are given by the Councell and Congregation, for all Acts of Hostility towards the English: The Orders were given to
Generall Officers in private, and were da∣ted the sixteenth of December last.
Their directions were to kill, burne, and spoyle all that ever they could, all that did belong to the English quarters, or any that would speak in their behalfe. Directions were sent to Owen Roe the 18. of that Mo∣neth, to make up all the Forces that hee could, and to march downe towards Trim. He cannot gather his men yet: for there are two Regiments of them in the County of Tiperary, and in the County of Lymricke: and they are now upon their march com∣ming to him. He went out of Lease the 29. of that moneth, with what forces hee had there. Colonel Warren went from Kilkenny upon St Stephens day, and was commanded with 500. of his men (with all expedition) to march towardes Teighchrohan. Hugh Mac-Phelim was commanded to meet in the County of Kildare, with all the forces he had. A Councell are working at Kilkenny to have no Assembly; but I think the coun∣trey will force them to it, if they stand out: for all the countrey is now weary of these
times; for they are all in a manner undone by Souldiers. And for all I see, the Officers and Souldiers in Generall Prestons Army, are weary of these times; for they get no pay, but what they get by the spoyle of the countrey. The Nuncio did expect some moneyes over: some Frigots are come, but no moneyes. The Nuntio that was here formerly is sent for to Rome, and I think no money comes till he comes there, nor then neither, as I understand from some. All our hope now is, from the King of Spaine, be∣cause he hath agreed with all others, upon such tearmes as he agreed with the Hollan∣ders. Such conditions we must have from our King now. That is in every one of our Clergies mouths already. General Prestons sonne came out of Spain, and brought all the newes, that the Hollanders and Spaine have agreed: He came over and a great ma∣ny Commanders, looking for Souldiers to carry o