An elegy, on the deplorable, and never enough to be lamented death, of the illustrious, and serene Charles the II. King of Great-Britain, France, and Ireland, &c. who departed this life, (on Friday the 6th. of February, between 11 and 12. of the clock, in the forenoon: and was interr'd at Westminster, the 14th. of the same month, being the 55th year of his age, 1684/5.


AN
ELEGY,
ON
The Deplorable, and never enough to be Lamented Death, of the Illustrious, and Serene
CHARLES the II. KING
OF
Great-Britain, France, and Ireland, &c. who Departed this Life, (on Friday the 6th. of February,
between 11 and 12. of the Clock, in the Forenoon: And was Interr'd at Westminster, the 14th. of the same Month,
being the 55th Year of his Age, 1684/5
HAng all the Streets with Sable Sad; and call
The Royal Palace Black; and not White-Hall:
Weep Sacred Beads of Loyal Tears, and true,
Of Orient Pearl; but Occidental Hew:
Since Britains Phoebus hath forsook the Stage,
Before he reach'd the Tropick of his Age.
The interval betwixt our Setting Sun,
And Rising Soveraign, 'ere his Light begun
Was short; yet (till our Sorrow found Relief)
We were near delug'd in the Seas of Grief.
Yet (tho our Soveraign doth our Mourning 'swage,
And gives our joy of Grief the Weather-gage.)
We'll make no Bonfires, for (it were in vain)
Our flowing Eyes would Weep them out again.
All Isra'l when Good Hezekiah Di'd
To his last Breath, true Loyal Honour pay'd;
Where's then the Boldest Critick can deny
Great CHARLES his worth a Doleful ELEGY;
His Worth, to Times last Period shall Endure,
In spight of Envy or the Grave Secure:
And Children yet Unborn with Tears shall pay
A Mournful Tribute to his sacred Clay.
He from his Child-hood was of great Renown;
He bore his Cross before he wore his Crown.
Brancht in the stock of Trouble ('tis well known)
His Fruit was Ripe, the Blossom yet unblown.
Great-Britains Bane, and Blush Eclips'd his Skie,
Ere England knew his Soveraignity:
But as his Sun ascended the Noon-day,
All Clouds (like Vapours) vanish'd quite away:
And the Bright Calmes of Peace did still remain
Through the whole Circle of his Halcyon Reign.

Then Rest (dear Saint, tho now Intomb'd in Dust)
Until the Resurrection of the Just.
And let our Mourners mitigate their Grief,
Because our Sorrow doth admit Relief:
The Vail of Death no Christian needs dismay;
The King of Kings himself did guide the Way.
And (since our Sore a Salve along doth bring)
God save Great JAMES, our Second Soveraign King.
Let his Dominions preface Black with White;
Since Rising Phoebus dissipates our Night:
Let Loyal Subjects all both cry and Sing
Like Birds Reviv'd in the returning Spring.
Let Court and City raise their joyful Voice
And Loyal Sighs still Eccho back Rejoyce:
Till Plotters all Conspiracies lay by,
And Treason turn to purest Loyalty.
Hence then projecting Traytors, stand aloof;
His Loyal Throne is sure, and Treason-Proof:
Lest set on Edge by old Seditious Smec,
Your Treasons Trap turn round upon your Neck.