Englands comfort and Londons ioy expressed in the royall triumphant and magnificent entertainment of our dread soveraigne Lord, King Charles ...


Englands Comfort, and Londons Ioy:
Expressed in the Royall, Triumphant, and Magnificent Entertain∣ment
of our Dread Soveraigne Lord, King Charles, at his blessed and
safe returne from Scotland on Thursday the 25. of Nouemb. 1641.
By the Right Honourable Sir Richard Gurney Knight, Lord Major, and the
Recorder, Sir Thomas Gardner, who were at that present both Knighted, who
attended his Majesty with the other Right Worshipfull Knights and Alder∣men,
Sheriftes, and Companies of this famous City of London:
Together with the manner and forme how the State was to be observed and per∣formed,
by the severall Companies on Horse-backe and foot; for the Conducting
of his Majesty t•• Queene, the Prince, and all the Royall Progeny, to the
Guild Hall, London, to dinner, and from thence to his Majesties
Palace at White Hall: Also the severall Speeches, and other
Verses presented to his sacred Person at that time. [illustration] 
Printed at London for Frcncis Coules. 1641.
Englands comfort, and Londons joy.NOt to delude my Reader with a long Preface to a short and
briefe Relation, I will first begin (as neare as true intelli∣gence
and eye-sight informed me of this great dayes most
magnificent and honourable Triumph and entertainment
of our most Gracious Soveraigne, at his returne from
Scotland to this Honourable City of London. How some other Kings
and Princes, of our own and other nations have been formerly entertai∣ned
by the Lord Major and Citizens of London, it is (as I have read in
our English Histories) set downe by me in short; towards the end of this Discourse.
On thursday the 25. of this instant November, 1641. Mr. Alder∣man
Garret, and his brother in office Mr. Alderman Clarke being both
Sheriftes of London, with 72. of their men in Scarlet Liveries, road four
miles towards Theobalds to meet his Majesty, with the City Trumpets
14. in number, and they conducted his Majestie in state untill such time
as they came where the Lord Major, did attend, and was attended to
welcome his Majestie as followeth. About eight of the clock in the
morning, the Aldermen, with Mr. Recorder of London, all in Scarlet
Gowns, with the City Councell, came all on horse-back to the Lord
Majors house in the old Jury, and there they attended his Lordship
some little time, till being all ready they road in brave Equipage to
Moore-fields (the Lord Major being in a most sumptuous Gowne of
Crimson velvet) where 500. of the Companies all in coats of Velvet,
every man of them having a Chaine of gold; Also every Horseman had
a foot-man to attend him clad in a footmans Jacket and breeches accor∣ding
all trim'd and set out with the colours that belonged to those Com∣panies

which they were free of. Also every Company had a horse-man
which road severally in the front of each of them, which horse-man
did likewise beare the Armes of such a one Comp