Study to be quiet, or, Serious and seasonable advice to the citizens of London written by a Citizen of London.


Study to be Quiet:
OR
SERIOUS and SEASONABLE
ADVICE
TO THE
CITIZENS
OF
LONDON.
Written by a Citizen of London.
 [illustration] H B
LONDON: Printed for Henry Brome. 1680.
Serious and Seasonable ADVICE
To the
CITIZENS of LONDON, &c.Friends and Fellow-Citizens.THe End of these few Lines is to persuade
Peace, which every man pretends to co∣vet;
but the end is not attainable with∣out
the use, means, and avoiding that
which is of a contrary Importance. Some
few things are here pointed at, which have occasioned
disturbance in Families, hatred and animosity among
Neighbours, disorders in the City, oppression and vio∣lence
in the Nation. That such things may not happen
amongst us any more, is the design of this Paper, and
shall be the constant and hearty Prayers of the Au∣thor.
It behooves every good Citizen to have a watchful
Eye towards such Persons and Actions as would cast
Scorn and Contempt upon the meanest Instrument of
Government. It is rare if any man be made desperate¦ly
wicked at once. Evil is propagated by degrees.
Hard thoughts of our Superiour, are often followed
with Hatred, and after with Sedition and Rebellion,
great things taking their rise from small and insensible
beginnings. A Cloud of the bigness of a Hand, spreads
the face of the Heavens. Thus a disobedient Servant
proves a bad Master, and a worse Citizen. If we slacken

in the least the Chain of our Duty, the Devil quickly
takes advantage. Some men who at first detested Re∣bellion,
have laughed and talked themselves into Dis∣obedience,
for which, perhaps, being worthily punished,
hath so exasperated their minds, so as nothing wanted
for revenge, but an opportunity. Others there be,
whose great felicity lies in hearing and telling News:
These are a sort of Busie-bodies, and men for the most
part, of small imployment, and as little discretion, that
receive all they hear (especially such things as will please
their Party) without examining the probability of its
being true or false; and having heard some odd Story,
go (big with it) to the next Club, where it is related
with abundance of formality; and if it be any thing re∣lating
to the Government, it is ten to one but some Sur∣mise
or sad Descant, as bad as Malice can invent, is ad∣ded
over and above. A ready way to introduce a disaf∣fection
toward those in Authority, and prepare mens
minds for Disobedience and Rebellion: Therefore such
Malapert Talkers, who are always finding fault, and
like Flies, are apt to dwell upon every Sore ought to
be Brow-beaten, scorned, and opposed by every honest
Citizen, as the Bane of Society, and Pests of the Com∣monwealth.
Let us all endeavour to live like Men,
and Christians, and boldly reprove such as offer to put
Affronts and Contempts upon Authority: A far rea∣dier
way to cure their itching Malady, than by taking
pleasure in their Fooleries and impertinencies. Let
every man in his stati