This is a true copy of the ordynaunce made in the tyme of the reygne of Kynge Henry the .VI. to be obserued in the kynges Eschequier by the officers and clerkes of the same for takynge of fees of the kynges accomptis in the same courte.


 [illustration] R [printer's device of Robert Redman] 
❧: This is a true copy of the ordynaunce made in the tyme of the reygne of kynge Henry the vi. to be obserued in the kynges Eschequier / by the offycers and clerkes of the same / for takyng of fees of the kyng{is} accomptis in the same courte. ✚
 [illustration] HONE SOIT QV• MALE PEN• [royal blazon or coat of arms] 
¶ In thoffyre of the kyng{is} Remem∣braunce.¶ Ink Recorde de termino sancti Michae∣lis. Anno xxvi. Regis Henrici sexti Ro∣tulo. lvi. exparte Remem̄ regis.FIrste for thentre of a custo∣mers viewe or accomptes in the Portes of Bryggewater, Chichester Newecastel Plim¦mouthe. Fowy. Pole, & Ber∣wyke. iii. s. iiii. d.Item for thentre of a Custo∣mers viewe or accompt of eue¦ry other porte. vi. s. viii. d.Item to the Secundary Clerke of the sayde euery other porte. xx. other porte. vi. s. viii. d.Itē for thentre of processes or plees of accōp¦tauntis coteynynge halfe a roll. iii. s. iiii. dItem yf it cōteyne an hole rolle. vi. s. viii. d.And so after the afferant yf it conteyne more.Item for thentre of letters patentes Escrip• consessyd or other recordes conteynynge lesse than halfe a rolle. ii. s.And yf it conteyne halfe a rolle. ii. s. iiii. d.And so after the afferant.Item for eutre of dayes and contynuaunce of accomptauntis. xx. d.Itē for makynge of wryttes of pryuylege. ii. sItem of the collectours and accomptauntis of the. xv. peny. NihilItē for thentre of wryttes vnder the greate or pryue Seale dyrect to the treasourer & barons
for accōptantis yf it cōteyne halfe a roll. ii. •And yf it cōteyne halfe a syde of a rolle. xii. d.And yf it conteyne more than halfe a rolle af∣ter the afferante the whithe shall remayne to the clerkes, excepte Mittimus and other writ¦tes, whiche haue ben vsed of olde to be entred amonge recordes.Item to the Clerkes for theyre petycyons yf they conteyne halfe a skynne of Parchemyn prest wyse. ii. s.Item to the Clerkes for thentre of foren ac∣comptes of Scotysshmoney. xx. s̄.Item to the clerkes for thentre of warrantes of attourney. iiii. d.Itē to the Clerkes for wakynge of Sistas in auxiliū cōstat de Nisi prius and cōmissyōs of Nisi pri{us} at the cōsēt of the party cōteyninge lesse thā half a rolle of {per}chmyn prest wyse. ii. s̄.And so after thasterant yf it conteyne more.¶ In the office of the Treasourer. of remembraunces.¶ Friste to the mayster for makinge, {per}uing, castynge. dischargyng, & alowaunce of the vie¦wes of the shyres of Cornewall, worcester, Rotlande & westmerlande & eche of them v. s̄And cytyes and broughes made shyres. iii. s̄. iiii. d.And of other double & great shyres. vi. s̄. viii. dItem to the Clerkes labourynge, wrytynge, & chargynge of the sayde viewes. ii s̄.Except the sayd citi