An argument delivered by Patrick Darcy, esquire by the expresse order of the House of Commons in the Parliament of Ireland, 9 iunii, 1641.


AN
ARGVMENT
DELIVERED
BY
PATRICKE DARCY ESQVIRE,
By the expresse order of the House of
Commons in the Parliament of
IRELAND, 9. Iunii, 1641.
 [illustration]  [royal blazon or coat of arms] 
Printed at Waterford by Thomas Bourke, Printer to the
Confederate Catholicks of Ireland, 1643.
5. Iunii, 1641.By the Commons House of IRELAND in
Parliament assembled.FOrasmuch as M. PATRICKE DARCY, by a
former order of this House, was appointed Prolocu∣tor,
at the Conference with the Lords, touching the
Questions propounded to the Iudges, and their pretended
answers to the same; It is hereby ordered, and the said
M. DARCY is required, to declare and set forth, at
the said Conference; the manifold grievances, and o∣ther
causes and grounds that moved this House, to pre∣sent
the said Questions to the Lords House, to be propoun∣ded
as aforesaid, and to give particular reasons for
every of the said Questions.
Copia vera.Extract. per Phil. Fern. Cleric. Parl. Com.AN
ARGVMENT
DELIVERED
BY
PATRICKE DARCY
ESQVIRE,
By the expresse orders of the Commons-House of the Par∣liament
of Ireland; at a conference with a Comittee
of the Lords House, in the dyning roome of the Castle
of Dublin, 9. Die Iunij 1641. upon certaine Que∣stions
propounded to the Iudges of Ireland in full Par∣liament;
and upon the answers of the said Iudges to
the said Questions.And in the conclusion, a declaration of the Com∣mons
House upon the said Questions.THE QVESTIONS.Questions, VVherein the House of Commons humbly desired, that the House of the
Lords would be pleased to require the Iudges to deliuer their resolutions.IN asmuch as the Subjects of this kingdome, are
free, loyall, and dutifull Subjects to his most Ex∣cellent
Majesty their naturall Liege, Lord & King;

And to be governed only by the Common Lawes
of England, & Statutes of force in this kingdome,
in the same manner & forme, as his Majesties Sub∣jects
of the Kingdome of England, are and ought
to be governed, by the said Common Lawes, and
Statutes of force in that kingdome; which of right
the Subjects of this kingdome doe challenge, and
make their protestation to be their birth-right,
and best inheritance; yet, in asmuch as the unlaw∣full
actions and proceedings of some of his Maje∣sties
Subjects, & Ministers of Iustice of late yeares,
introduced and practised in this kingdome, did
tend, to the infringing and violation of the lawes,
liberties, and freedome, of the said Subjects of this
kingdome, contrary to his Majesties Royall and
pious intentions. Therfore the Knights, Citizens
and Burgesses in Parliament assembled, not for a∣ny
doubt, or ambiguity, which may be conceived,
or thought of, for, or concerning the premisses,
nor of the ensueing questions, but for manifestati∣on
and declaration of a cleere truth, and of the
said Lawes and Statutes already planted, and for
many ages past, setled in this k