Solomon's prescription for the removal of the pestilence, or, The discovery of the plague of our hearts, in order to the healing of that in our flesh by M.M.


SOLOMON'S PRESCRIPTION For the Removal of the PESTILENCE: OR, The Discovery of the PLAGUE of our Hearts, in order to the Healing of that in our Flesh.
By M. M.
LAMENT. 3. 39, 40, 41.Wherefore doth a living man complain? A man for the punishment of his sins?
Let us search and try our wayes, and turn again to the Lord.
Let us lift up our heart with our hands unto God in the Heavens.
PSAL. 106. 29, 30.Thus they provoked him to anger with their inven∣tions: and the Plague brake in upon them.
Then stood up Phinehas, and executed Judgment, and so the Plague was stayed.
LONDON, Printed in the Year, M. DC. LXV.

The Preface to the Reader.Reader,I Had more Objections in my own thoughts to the sending forth this Paper; and can fore-think more faults like to be found with it when sent forth, then I shall now stand to tell thee of, or make any answer for. But because amongst all those Objections, I met not with this, That it was impossible it should do anie good, I thought the rest answerable; and because amongst all its faults, thou canst not (trulie) find this, That it was not intended for anie good, I perswade my self all the rest are pardonable. What the design of it is, if thou art in haste, the Title will tell thee; if thou art at leasure, and think'st it worth thy while, thou may'st find it in the Book it self; so ei∣ther way I might be excused from saying ought of it here. But somewhat for thy satisfaction know, when I considered the sore Judgment wherewith we have been visited, which so evidentlie declares Wrath to be gone forth from the Lord against us, I thought it might be an Essay verie acceptablè to God, and profitable to our selves, to do the best I could to make the voyce of the Rod Articulate; that in the print of its lashes, not onlie Gods Wrath, but the sin he scourgeth us for, and the duty he would drive us to, might be found in legible Characters, that even he that runs may read them. When I lookt on Affliction as a Medicine for a distempered Nation, I thought it was ex∣ceeding necessarie, in order to its kindlie working with us, to tell the nature, import and use of it; and to give directions how it ought to be received. And though I acknowledge my self the meanest of Ten thousand for so great a Work, yet when I saw or heard of nothing so particular and distinct, as I thought the matter required, humblie depending upon, and imploring Divine assistance, I made this attempt; wherein, whil'st I have guided my self by the Physitians own Rules, and an impartial consideration of the na∣ture of the Patient, I hope I have made no material (I am sure no wil∣ful) mistakes. This then was my great desire and hope, to be by this under∣taking, a worker together with Gods Providence for some good to the Nation. And surely no man hath cause to be angry with this intention, or with any thing that