The triall of the protestant priuate spirit VVherein their doctrine, making the sayd spirit the sole ground & meanes of their beliefe, is confuted. By authority of Holy Scripture. Testimonies of auncient fathers. Euidence of reason, drawne from the grounds of faith. Absurdity of consequences following vpon it, against all faith, religion, and reason. The second part, which is doctrinall. Written by I.S. of the Society of Iesus.


THE TRIALL OF THE PROTESTANT PRIVATE SPIRIT. VVHEREIN Their Doctrine, making the sayd Spirit the sole ground & meanes of their Beliefe, is confuted. By
Authority of Holy Scripture.Testimonies of auncient Fathers.Euidence of Reason, drawne from the Grounds of Faith.Absurdity of consequences following vpon it, against all Faith, Religion, and Reason.
The Second Part, which is Doctrinall.
WRITTEN By I. S. of the Society of IESVS.
Ezech. 23. vers. 3.Ʋae Prophetis insipientibus, qui sequuntur Spiritum suum, & nihil vident.
Woe to the foolish Prophets, who follow their owne Spirit, and see nothing.
Permissu Superiorum. M.DC.XXX.
Tertullian. de praescript. cap. 4.Qui lupi rapaces nisi sensus & Spiritus subdoli, ad infestan∣dum gregem intrinsecùs delitescentes?
Who are rauenous wolues, but deceitfull Spirits and senses, lying close to molest the flocke of Christ?
Caluin. in 1. Ioan. 41.Multi falsi doctores titulum Spiritus mentiuntur. Insurgunt multi fanatici qui se temerè iactant Spiritu Dei praeditos esse. Loquuntur priuato suo nomine, prodeunt priuato suo nomine, proferumt ex proprio sensu.
Many false Doctours do feigne the title of the Spirit. Many mad men do rashly boast that they haue the spirit of God. They speake in their owne name, they go out in their owne name, and they vtter what they say in their owne name.
TO THE CHRISTIAN READER.COVRTEOVS REA∣DER,This second Part of the Protestant Priuate Spirit, like a nevv-borne Infant, is at length, after long trauaile, come to light. I may iustly terme it an Agrippa, because it vvas hardly brought forth. It caused many great, and long gripings in the Mothers vvombe, in the Conception and
Framing, but passed difficulties, both greater and longer, in the Byrth & Prin∣ting (so hard it is for an Israelite among the Aegyptians to conceaue & beare such Infants.) It vvas in danger to haue byn stifled vnder Midvviues hands: one vvas long sought for, hardly obteyned, and farre fetched; and yet as a stranger, not so skillfull, but that many errours are committed. If therefore it come to thy vievv maimed & imperfect, blame not the Authour, excuse the Printer.
Thou vvilt meruaile hovv this second Part gets birth and breath, and comes to light before the first. The reason is this: like to tvvo Tvvins they strugled in the birth, and passing the hands of diuers Midvviues, this fell to the lott of one more ready and skillfull, and so got the precedence of Birth-right; vvhich yet in part vvas its due, as being first formed & composed, and that before the other vvas

intended. For supposing the