Characters and elegies. By Francis VVortley, Knight and Baronet.



CHARACTERS AND ELEGIES.
BY FRANCIS VVORTLEY, Knight and Baronet.
 [illustration] 
Printed in the Yeere, M DC XLVI.

TO THE LOVERS OF HONOUR & POESIE.GENTLEMEN,YOu whose constitutions are even and equall, not over-balanced with earthly and base metall, love Ho∣nour and Gallantry in any man, & virtus in hoste probatur. You who know God made all things by his owne Rule of Propor∣tion, (in weight, measure and number:) you who are friends to that Divine, Noble, and Royall Art of Poesy, for what is it but well weighed words, made even by that Lesbian Rule of Proportion? you can best judge of these phancies dedicated to you, as they are meant. The subject of my Poetry is noble, and the noblest of Gods creatures, Man, brave men,

loyal men, who have dyed like Ionathan and his brothers, either with the King, or in his Cause, (most of them) the other were worthy a bet∣ter Muse as well as they.
This way of service to the memory of the dead wants not presidents worthy our imita∣tions, Kings and Prophets, and the greatest Law-giver, whom I will take for my first pre∣sident of Poetry, even Moses, who from Gods owne mouth gave the Law to his owne peo∣ple: he composed such a song, as the Lambe and Angels make use of it, (Apoc. 15.) which was his song of deliverance he left composed, and so first sanctified Poetry, as Christ and his Apostles in the New Testament by the alle∣gation of the Psalmes and Prophets, who were both Poets and Vates. Also S. Paul san∣ctified the Heathen Poets. David, vir secundùm cor Dei, that pious Prince, that martiall King, that glorious man of God, truly deserved that glorious Epithet, Princeps Poetarum. Solomon, the wisest of men, composed his Songs and Canticles. David in this way of Poesy made an 〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉 for Saul and Ionathan. And Ieremy made the 〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉 for good Iosias. He that goes up to the mountaine of God, shall meet the Prophets

with musicall raptures. The Jewes buryed their dead with great ceremony, and had their Praeficaes, women singers, their 〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉, their songs of mourning and lamentation, their burning of Incense and sweet odours for their Kings, and solemn mournings for their Prin∣ces. They mourned and fasted (1 Sam. 31. 13. and 2 Sam. 1. 12.) for their Kings, they mourned ma∣ny dayes, as for Moses and Ioshua, and so for Iosias; for whom (as I said) Ieremy made the 〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉. The chief mourner at every resting place sung the usuall 〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉, or as we call it, the bur∣den of the song; like that in Ier. 9. 18. that our eyes may run downe with teares, and our eye-lids gush out with waters. And this they did in hope of Resurrection, as well as honour of the dead, for they comforted their friends with places of Scripture fullest of comfort, as that of Esay 25. 8. He will swallow up death in victory, and wipe away all teares: And Psal. 72. 16. They shall flourish and sprin