An oration, on benevolence, delivered before the Society of Black Friars, in the city of New-York, at their anniversary festival, on the 10th November, 1794. / By De Witt Clinton, Esquire. ; Published by order of the society.


AN ORATION, On BENEVOLENCE, DELIVERED BEFORE THE SOCIETY OF BLACK FRIARS, In the City of NEW-YORK, AT THEIR ANNIVERSARY FESTIVAL, On the 10th NOVEMBER, 1794.
By DE WITT CLINTON, Esquire.
PUBLISHED BY ORDER OF THE SOCIETY.
NEW-YORK: PRINTED BY FRIAR M'LEAN.
IN FRIARY, WEDNESDAY, November 12th, 1794.On motion of Cardinel PELL. seconded by the Treasurer, it was Resolved,THAT the Thanks of this Society be presented to Brother DE WITT CLINTON, for the ele∣gant Oration delivered by him to the Society at their last Anniversary Festival; and that a Committee of three Members, be appointed to wait on him and communicate the same, and request a Manuscript thereof for Publication.
Father Mitchell, Cardinal Richardson, and Friar John C. Ludlow were appointed a Com∣mittee to carry the above Resolution into effect.
On motion, Resolved,
That Two Hundred Copies of Chancellor De Witt Clinton's Oration be printed, at the Expence of the Society, for the Use of such Mem∣bers of the Friary as may apply for the same.
Extract from the Minutes, JOHN VAN REED, Sec'ry.AN ORATION.IT has been justly observed, that in propor∣tion to the benefits which an institution is cal∣culated to produce, in that proportion is the extension of its duration and its operative in∣fluence upon society. This remark, which does equal honor to the sagacity of the human head and the benevolence of the human heart, is abundantly verified by the experience of ages. In exploring the historic page, we find that those institutions, which have been productive of benefit to mankind, have like the pyramids of Egypt braved the ravages of time and weather∣ed the convulsions of Empires; while those establishments, however strongly supported by the sceptre of power or upheld by the hand of superstition, which have rioted upon the industry and lived upon the blood of our species, have quickly mouldered into dust. The Divine Re∣ligion of Jesus has nearly seen the flight of eighteen centuries, and will last as long as time itself; while the four great Monarchies and the mighty empire of Rome which levelled man with the brute and violated all the rights of nature, have long since felt the transitory state 〈…〉. The progressive ameliora¦tion

of the world has often been the theme of philosophic speculation and the subject of pro∣phetic vision; and in truth whether we view man in his passage from the solitary to the social state, or consider him in the various modifica∣tions of society, we will find sufficient reason to concur in the opinion and to taste of the di∣vine fountain of rapture, which springs from the union of the intellect and the heart in fa∣vor of human happiness.
The progressive improvement of human af∣fairs opens a prospect so grand and so interest∣ing, promises such permane