Conjugium languens, or, The natural, civil, and religious mischiefs arising from conjugal infidelity and impunity by Castamore.


Conjugium Languens:
OR,
The Natural, Civil, and Religious
MISCHIEFS
Arising from
Conjugal Infidelity
AND
IMPUNITY.
By CASTAMORE.
Tu quoque suscepti curam dimittis amici;
Officiique pium tam cito ponis onus?
Ov. Trist.London: Printed by R. ROBERTS. 1700.
Conjugium Languens, &c.TWAS a false and ground∣less
Character which was
given by the great Scaliger,
of the English Nation, That
they were a People Cruel and
Inhospitable, perfect Self-Ad∣mirers,
and Contemners of
all the World besides. For if we consider ei∣ther
the Nature of our Laws, or the Genius
of our Religion, which are founded both of
them upon the Rules of Equity and Indul∣gence,
we must needs conclude the Temper of
the English to be a perfect Contradiction to
both these, if it is not treatable and human.
They may indeed sometimes be fierce, but
then 'tis in their own Defence: And if they
are inhospitable, 'tis only to such as would
make a Prey of their Civility. For how many
Strangers quit their Native Soil, to enjoy the
Pleasure of a more Indulgent English Clime?
And Foreign Merchants crowd our Streets in
such Numbers, as if London were the Mistress
and universal Patroness of Traff•ck through the
World. But if men approach them in an
hostile way, there is no reason they should
meet with Hospitality, or be treated otherwise
than with a Martial English Bravery, which is
highly necessary for their own Defence and
Preservation: For their main Bulwark is their
Native Valour; and their Men of War, their
only Alps and Pyrenean Hills. And to say
that they are Self▪ Admirers, is very weak, since
if they should not love themselves, they ought
to be hated of all the World besides. I only
wish their Conjugal Love were as sincere and
genuine, as is their Friendliness to Strangers,
and as little liable to Exceptions as their Cru∣elty.
Then many silent Complaints against
Matrimonial Infidelity would cease; then would
not those Solemn, Sacred Ties be so wilfully
violated and prophan'd, so frequently made an
occasion to Lewdness, and sacrific'd so impi∣ously
to all Immodesty and Lust. For how
often is Marriage made only a Cloak to Impu∣rity?
And that dazzling Beauty which before
commanded Respect and Admiration by its In∣nocence,
is under that Religious Cover expos'd
a Prostitute to every wanton Eye. Would but
the Modesty of our Women keep pace with the
Fortitude of our Men; and the Bashfulness and
Purity of Those, equalize the Courage and
Hardiness of These, how valuable should we
be at Home, as well as formidable Abroad!
Then would it be difficult to determine which
of these two Qualities would most recom∣mend
us to the Esteem of the World; whe∣ther
we should more be fam'd for a Nati∣on
of Lucretia's, or for a standing Race of
Heroes.
But the Women will be apt to say, That
were there no Attacks, there would then be no
Victory: Did not the Importunities of the Men
provoke th