Fraud and violence discovered and detected, or, A remonstrance of the interessed in the ships Bona Esperanza and Henry Bona Adventura of London with a narrative of the proceedings in the case (depending before the States General of the Seven United Provinces) between the assignes of William Courten and the East-India Company of the Netherlands : also, several reasons and arguments for the speedy decision of differences (by amicable conferences of state) arising upon depredations and spoyls / by George Carevv ...


Fraud and Violence Discovered and Detected: OR A REMONSTRANCE OF The Interessed in the Ships Bona Esperanza and Henry Bona Adventura of LONDON. WITH A Narrative of the Proceedings in the CASE (depending before the STATES GENERAL of the Seven United Provinces) between the Assignes of William Courten and the East-India Company of the Netherlands.
ALSO Several Reasons and Arguments for the speedy decision of Differences (by Amicable Conferences of State) arising upon Depredations and Spoyls.
 [illustration] 
Fiat Justitia pereat Mundus.
By GEORGE CAREVV Armig.
LONDON, Printed by William Godbid for the persons concerned. M. DC. LXII.
An Introduction To the TREATISE.GReat Adventures are accompanyed with Equal hazzards and advanta∣ges, and men of noble principles rather take incouragement to im∣prove their Countrey by lawful En∣terprises, than to sit still and suffer Penurie through fear and negligence: The wisdome of all Ages provided safe Conducts for Merchants, under the sanctuary and protection of Jus Gentium, and Na∣tional Treaties; therefore they that suffer Injuries by the Insolent Subjects of Foraign States, without seeking Satisfaction and Reparation answerable to the Damnum Emergens, forfeit not onely their own Proprieties, but betray both the Honour and Justice of their PRINCE, and the Strength and Courage of His Subjects. Felons by the Law of ENGLAND are not admitted Counsel, or any Testimonies upon Oath; for that such Criminal offences are contra Pacem & Dignitatem Domini Regis, &c. and Murtherers are punished with Death by the Law of all Nations. Trespasses according to their circumstances are considered in the Eye of the Law: To strike a Peasant bears an Action, but to strike a Peer bears a greater: Rob∣beries committed at noon-day, in the open Roads,

are laid to the Countries charge; for that Theives were harboured within the Jurisdiction of a Civil Government: Among the Greeks; if a Murtherer flew into any City for refuge, they Apprehended three of the Inhabitants, and kept them in safe custody until Justice were done upon the Offender: To deny or delay Justice, is Injustice; and where there is a Persistency in it, Grotius (who was both a Divine and a Civil Lawyer) says that Letters of Reprisal are consonant to Law, and therein Nations as well as Persons are concerned: The Sacred Scrip∣ture directs a threefold Restitution for Goods un∣justly taken, and the Church of Rome Excommuni∣cates those that detain any thing from perso