The examination and tryall of Old Father Christmas At the assizes held at the town of Difference, in the county of discontent. Written according to legal proceeding, by Josiah King.


 [illustration]  [depiction of Father Christmas] Behold the Majestie and grace—!
Of loueing, cheerfull, Christmas face.
Whome many thousands, with one breath:
Cry out, let him be put to death.
Who indeede can neuer die:
So long as man hath memory.

THE
EXAMINATION
AND
TRYALL
of Old Father
CHRISTMAS.
At the Assizes held at the
Town of Difference, in the
County of Discontent.
Written according to Legal proceeding,
By Josiah King.
LONDON:
Printed for Thomas Johnson, at the
sign of the golden Key in
Pauls Church-yard,
1658.
To the Worshipful John Hodge,
Doctor of Physick at Modbury
in Devon.Sir:PArdon I beseech you my presump∣tion,
in presenting you this insu∣ing
Allegory: I must confess, it is
too trivial for your grave peru∣sal,
yet the reading perhaps may serve to the
same end the writing did, which was only
Recreation; Fancy is a Daughter of Salomons
good Houswife; she will bee spinning before
it bee light: Sir, I hope you will Candidly
construe his intention, who is weak in his in∣deavours,
though strong in his desires, and if
he could he would not; or if he would, hee
could not, be otherwise than
Your Servant in the bonds
of affection.
Josiah King.To Captain Thomas Prinne, of
Wembury.Sir:IN discharge of my promise, I here tender you
the service of an old man, let him not be ser∣ved,
like the Serving-man, turned away be∣cause
old; I hope he will not speak any thing
that may offend a chast ear: yet I question not,
but there will be evil reports raised on him, and
indeed, Woe were to him, if all should speak
well of him.
I know you are ingenious, and besides
I have been told, a lover of good Tydes:
O let them flow! if they content do bring;
But never ebbe, thus praies your servant King.
To Momus, or the Critick.Self-conceited Sir,I Know thou wilt brag, thy very breath is
enough to poyson the Muses: how many
pots of oyntment hast thou spoyl'd, I know
thou wilt be chopping upon my broken stile,
but tell me, canst thou expect flowers from
him, that never walkt in Apollo's garden? If

thou sayest, here is something stolne, I say
thou lyest; it is but borrowed, and that is the
Method: The Author of the Isle of man,
and I had it from the Assizes; now be advised
by me, put thy ears in under thy cap, and
shut thy black mouth, and then no body will
know thee; thus saith
I. K.To the honest Reader.Friend:MY intent in writing this Allegorical
Tryal of Christmas, was not to vent
mine opinion upon the observation of the time,
he that observes a day as hee should, may keep
Christmas every day: only herein is expressed
some part of those arguments which are used in
pleading for, or against the keeping of it: It
will be I hope no cause of controversie, there is
too much division already, for which there is
as much grief of heart: Pray for the peace of
Jerusalem, let them prosper that