A booke which sheweth the life and manners of all true Christians and howe vnlike they are vnto Turkes and Papistes, and heathen folke. Also the pointes and partes of all diuinitie, that is of the reuealed will and worde of God are declared by their seuerall definitions and diuisions in order as followeth. Also there goeth a treatise before of reformation without tarying for anie, and of the wickednesse of those preachers, which will not refourme them selues and their charge, because they will tarie till the magistrate commanude and compell them. By me, Robert Brovvne.



A Booke WHICH SHEWETH THE life and manners of all true Christians, and howe vnlike they are vnto Turkes and Papistes, and Heathen folke.
Also the pointes and partes of all diui∣nitie, that is of the reuealed will and worde of God, are declared by their seuerall Definitions, and Diuisions in order as followeth.
ROBERT BROVVNE.
MIDDELBVRGH, ¶Imprinted by Richarde Painter. 1582.

〈1 page missing〉




6 Whiche be the three per∣sons?God the Father.
God the Sonne begotten of the Fa∣ther from euerlasting, and after an vnspeakeable manner, whiche also is called IESVS CHRIST.
God the holy Ghoste, proceeding of the Father, and of the Sonne.

6 What dreames and imaginations haue the Heathen of sundrie per∣sons in the Godhead?They haue their Baals, Popes, & fa∣therhoode in mischiefe: They haue their sonnes also & children of their Gods, as mightie Gyaunts & subtile wretches, which drawe frō their fa∣therhoode a course and force which is mischeeuous. They haue also their seducing and wicked spirites, which they say are of God.

6A person is a difference of the Godhead in the names and working in one mutuall agreement.

The Father is a person of the Godhead, which is, and worketh by his Sonne begotten of him from euerla∣sting, in a mysterie vnsearcheable.

The Sonne is a person of the Godhead, which is, and worketh with his Father, who begate him from euer∣lasting.

The holy Ghost is a person of the Godhead, which is, and worketh from the Father, and from the Sonne.




7 Howe is God all sufficient and most blessed?His all sufficiencie and moste blessed state appeareth by his incomparable Maiestie, & by the shewe of his won∣derfull glorie.

7 How do the Heathen Gods vanish, and haue their wantes and harmes?They are vile and nothing worth.
They are vnprofitable and can doo nothing, except they be helped of others.

7The all sufficiencie and blessednesse of God, is his perfect state, whereby he wanteth nothing, nor hath neede of anie thing, to better the same, but all things haue neede of him, and haue their beeing by him.




8 Howe is his Maiestie incom∣parable?Because he was neuer made nor crea∣ted, nor seene of mortall man.
Because he staineth and confoundeth all things being compared with him.
And because he is onely infinite.

8 Howe doo they shewe them selues vile and nothing worth?They are made, handled, and led by others.
They are worse then their makers, & more vile, then they whiche