A defence of the Dean of St. Paul's Apology for writing against the Socinians in answer to the antapologist.


A DEFENCE OF THE Dean of St. Paul's APOLOGY FOR Writing against the SOCINIANS.
A DEFENCE OF THE Dean of St. Paul's, APOLOGY FOR Writing against the SOCINIANS. IN ANSWER TO THE ANTAPOLOGIST.
LICENS'D.
LONDON: Printed for William Rogers, at the San over-against St. Dunstan's Church in Fleetstreet. MDCXCIV.
A DEFENCE OF THE Dean of St. Paul's APOLOGY FOR Writing against the SOCINIANS.ONE would have thought, that when the Ancient Doctrine of a Trinity in Unity, had not only been contradicted, but openly scorn'd and ridicul'd with as little Modesty as Sense, it had been no unpardonable Crime to undertake the Defence thereof: But it seems a certain Stander-by being a little touch'd with Melancholy, could not bear such an Attempt; for this is to litigate touching a Fundamental; and that is to turn it into a Controversy; that is, to unsettle, at least endanger the unsettling the whole Superstructure. So that when some Learned Writers took upon them to chastise the Insolence of these Busy and Factious Underminers of Christianity, who in the opinion of any one that is not overrun with Melancholy, must be thought by their

bold Attempts upon the Fundamentals of our Faith, to have endeavour'd the unsettling the whole Superstructure; this Stander-by was put into a sudden Fright, to see men so unreasonable, as to write in Vindication of a Funda∣mental Article of the Christian Faith, which it becomes Peaceable men rather tamely and silently to give up, than to litigate concerning it: And therefore he addresses in An Earnest and Compassionate Suit to the Learned Writers in Defence of the Churches Doctrine, to hold their hands, and forbear at least till a fit time.
But it seems All men had not the same Sentiments of this Peaceable Design, as the Melancholy Author of it had; nor could the Compassiona•e Suit work its hop'd-for effects on the minds of All Learned Writers. 'Tis no wonder therefore that the Dean of St. Pauls was not thereby discouraged from resuming the Defence of the Catholick Faith; but only thought it necessary, before he ventured to dispute these matters any farther, to make some Apology for Disputing; and to show, that notwithstanding what this Author endeavours to persuade the world, it is nei∣ther Vnchristian, nor Vncharitable, nor of Dangerous Con∣sequence.
But this Apology of the Dean's did, it seems, stir the Spleen of our Stander-by, and move the Choler of this Peaceable and Modest Person, who would (but it seems he could not, especially towards the Church of England) observe the common Rules of Good Manners: And there∣fore we must not blame him, if in his Reply to the Dean we do (notwithstanding his designing the contrary, and composing his Mind as far as he was able) meet with Bit∣terness, Passion, Cavilling, Insolence, and Ill Language; for tho he will not pardon such things in himself, (and therefore 'tis to be hop'd will do pr