Of the end of the world and iudgement of our Lord Iesus Christe to come, and of the moste perillous dangers of this our moste corrupt age, and by what meanes the godly may auoid the harmes thereof, sermons preached in latin in the assembly of the clergie by Henry Bullinger, and now lately englished by Thomas Potter.



Of the end of the world and iudgement of our Lord Iesus Christe to come, and of the moste perillous dangers of this our moste corrupt age, and by what meanes the godly may auoid the harmes therof / two sermons preached in latin in the assem∣bly of the clergie by Hen∣ry Bullinger / and now sorely englished by Thomas Pot∣ter.
¶Heerin are expounded the words of our sauiour. Mat. 24. tou¦ching the end of the world, & the last iudgmēt. Also the words of Dā•elin the 7. chap. cōcerning the most troublesōe kingdōe of the Pope / & the end therof. Finally the woords of the Apostle. 2. Tim. 5. concerning the perils of the last times / and the excellency and fulnes of holy Scripture.
Imprinted at London at the long shop in the Pultrie by Iohn Allde.







Of the end of the world & the Iudgement of our Lord Iesus Christe to come, and of the moste gréeuous perils of this our moste corrupt age or time.
❧The first Sermon of Henry Bullinger.THE matter it self requireth, and the examples bothe of the Prophets and also of the Apostles doo instruct vs, that all our Ecclesiasticall preachings (doctrines I mean, admonitions, rebu∣kings, exhortations, counsails and com∣fortings) are to be framed according to the time. And moreouer, that all Eccle∣siasticall dooings are to be referred vnto edifying.
But if wée should now intreat and speak as the present time requireth, and to the prophet of vs all, who are moste of vs ministers of the Church, and there∣fore are wee moste cheefely assembled héere to th'entent somewhat should bée said concerning the duety of our office, that is moste principally requisit to knowe: there appéereth to vs no matter

more profitable, nor more necessary, then to admonish your holinesse (ye Fa∣thers and brethern honorable and most déerly beloued) of the consummation of the world, and the finall iudgement of Christe Iesus our Lord. And also as our speciall duty requireth) diligently and ernestly to stir vp the people of Christe, committed to our charge: vnto a sober watchfulnes, lest sudainly and vnwares the day of the Lord steale vppon them, which vndoutedly cannot be far of, and which our elders afore vs, teachers in the Church abooue a thousand or ix. hun∣dred yéeres past, did think to be at hand.
How much rather ought we (vppon whom the ends of the world are come, & who also haue most manifestly séenful filled very many of ye Prophesies yt haue been set foorth concerning the end of the world, and the things that should come to passe (immediatly before the day of Iudgement) to lift vp our heds, know∣ing that our redemption euen now dra∣weth néer.
Christe Iesus our Lord béeing yet a fauourable high Préest of the faithful,