said, he hoped that their Lordships would allow him to say a few words with reference to the position in which they were placed by the changes that had been made in the Bill.
They were now at the 11th of August, when Members of both Houses of Parliament, to use the language of grouse shooting, began to pack,  and it was impossible to get a largo number of Members to give their attention even to changes of this kind.
Under these circumstances, and under the belief that the changes now proposed to their Lordships were, for the most part, matters of compromise between the two, or rather the three or four, different Parties, it was very difficult for them to act together, or even upon their own individual judgment, without involving political consequences which none of them wished to bring about; and, therefore, he could not help feeling that they were not in a position to consider these Amendments on their own merits.
On that account, he wished to say a few words as to the general aspect of the Bill as it came before them.
In the first place, no one could fail to see in the Amendments now before them from the Commons what an immense development they were of the principles of the Act of 1881.
That Act was accepted at the time by the Irish Party, not as perfect, but as merely containing valuable germs; and he thought he need hardly point out how great had been the growth and development of those germs.
The Bill, as now altered, made most extensive changes on the Act of 1881; and he would point out that, with two exceptions, all those changes were in the direction of greater concessions to the majority of the voting power in Ireland
— now the tenants.
There were only two that he believed would be of value to the landowners, though what that value might amount to be had some doubt—one, the reform of method of procedure in the case of bankrupt tenants, which he believed would be of real value; and the other was something like the establishment of a principle that rent was to be considered as just a debt as a debt to traders or other creditors.
That immense development of the Act of 1881 led to important considerations.
Both of these were valuable concessions in principle; but all the other Amendments were in the direction of greater concessions to the tenants.
Some of them were of the most extensive kind.
There was no doubt whatever that the Act of 1881 had been passed in the belief in the permanence of certain limitations contained in it; and Members of Parliament had been persuaded to believe, as they were now, that those limitations would be permanent and would be sustained.
The faith of contracts had been pleaded for the exclusion of leaseholders from the Act; but almost all the limitations imposed by Mr. Gladstone, and on the faith of which that Act had been passed, had now been swept away.
He thought that these facts taught them very clearly the important lesson that when a Minister came down to Parliament with very large proposals involving new pr