An act for enabling judges to hold an assize at Durham.:  Wednesday July 13. 1659. Ordered by the Parliament, that this Act be forthwith printed and published. Tho. St Nicholas Clerk of Parliament.


AN ACT For Enabling JUDGES To hold an Assize at Durham.
 [illustration]  [blazon of the Commonwealth] 
Wdnesday July 13. 1659.ORdered by the Parliament. That this Act be forth with Printed and Published.
THO. St NICHOLAS Clerk of the Parliament.
LONDON: Printed by JOHN FIELD, Printer to the Parliament.
And are to be sold at the seven Stars in Fleetstreet, over against Dunstans Church, 1659.
AN ACT For Enabling JUDGES To hold an Assize at Durham.BE it Enacted by Autho∣rity of Parliament, and it is hereby ordained and ap∣pointed, That a Sessions for the County of Durham shall be holden and kept at the City of Durham in the said County, upon the Eighth day of August now next coming, being in this present year One thousand six hundred fifty and nine, and that Francis Thorpe, one of the Iudges of this Commonwealth, and John Parker one other of the Iudges of this Common∣wealth, shall be Iustices of the said Sessions for the said County, and that all Actions, as well real as personal, and all other Acti∣ons mixt or otherwise, and all Pleas, Pro∣cepts, Writs, Process, Demurrers, Recogni∣zances, Fines, Recoveries, and all other Proceedings, matters and things which were depending in the Court of Pleas at Durham, upon the Two and Twentieth
day of August One thousand six hundred forty two, or at any time since, and are now discontinued and put without day by not coming of the Iustices, or otherwise, shall be and stand revived, continued, and of as fall force and effect in Law, to all intents and purposes, as they were the said Two and Twentieth day of August, One thou∣sand six hundred forty two, or at any time since, and as if the same had been taken and proceeded in before lawful Iustices. And that all such Process, Pleas, Demurrers, and Proceedings in every such Action, Actions, Suits, Bills or Plaints, which were de∣pending upon the said Two and Twentieth of August, One thousand six hundred forty two, or any time since, shall stand good and effectual, and be proceeded in, and sued forth, in such maner and form, and be in the same plight, estate, condition and order, as if the same discontinuance, obstruction or hin∣derance had never happened, any disconti∣nuance, miscontinuance, putting without day, or not prosecuting of the same to the contrary notwithstanding. And that the said Iustices so assigned, or one of them, after such time as they shall have the Re∣cords of the same Pleas and Process before them, shall have full Power and Autho∣rity to continue the said Pleas, Process, and all things that depend upon them, and to hear and finally determine thereupon ac∣cording as any other Iustice or Iustices of any Sessions heretofore held at Durham, before the said Two and Twentieth day
of August, One thousand six hundred forty two, might or ought to have done, i