The Kings Maiesties speech to the Lords for raising of forces to preserve the peace and safety of his subjects, June 29 likewise a report of Mr. Hambden and Mr. Fines concerning a conspiracy intended against the Parliament : whereunto is annexed joyfull newes from the Queene in Holland, sent from Mr. Cayne Her Majesties servant to Mr. Sanders neere Charing-Crosse, concerning fourteene messengers which are gone from the states in Holland to His Majesty at Yorke, whose names are expressed in this ensuing relation : together with the message the States sent to His Majestie with their determination concerning the Lord Strange.



The Kings Maiesties SPEECH To the LORDS for the raising of For∣ces, to preserve the peace and safety of His Subjects. Iune. 29.
Likewise a Report of Mr. Hambden, and Mr. Fines, concerning a Conspiracy intended against the Parliament.
Whereunto is annexed Joyfull Newes from the Queene in Holland. Sent from Mr. Cayne Her Majesties Servant, to Mr. Sanders neere Charing-Crosse.
Concerning fourteene Messengers which are gone from the States in Holland to His Majesty at Yorke, whose Names are expres∣sed in this ensuing Relation.
Together with the Message the States sent to His Majestie.
With their Determination concerning the Lord Strange.
Ordered that this be printed and published.
Jo. Browne, Cler. Parl.
Iuly, 5. London, Printed for I. H. and T. R. 1642.

The Kings Majesties Speech to the LORDS for the raising of For∣ces to maintaine the peace and safety of His Sub∣jects.My Lords,THe last time I was in this place I minded you to make what speed you could to raise Forces to reduce the ty∣ranising people, which will not obey my command to a Loyall subjection, the same I shall now include, for I a∣bove all things in the world prize the peace and safety of my good Subjects, and of all Rebellion J hate that of the Popish Faction, I heare daily of the wo∣full estate of my People, and doe under∣stand how my House of Commons
have passed a Bill for the raising of For∣ces, and that the Bill stickes with you my Lords, for whach I give you no thanks, as to the Declaration, J have no pleasure in that, but that Actions may be transacted, in matter of such conse∣quence, this is the full effect of the Speech.

The Roport made by Master Pym.Still doe the Protestants eccho forth lameetable complaints, and as it were dispaire of safety, for it was reported to the committee for Irish affaires, that that more Counties have collected their Forces, and joyne with the Rebels,
They are marched within 4. Miles of Dublin, pillaging of Houses, and dri∣ving away Cattell, and stop the passa∣ges
from whence they received provisi∣on, to the great griefe and feare of his Majesties good Subjects, the Protestants of Ireland, the Rebels made publique proclemation, and maintained it, with a generall Oath for to be all true to the Church of Rome. also they proclaime and confesse that King Charles is their lawfull King and governour, making a Vow and Protestation.
Th