The lives, last words, and dying speech of Ezra Ross, James Buchanan, and William Brooks, who were executed at Worcester, on Thursday the 2d day of July, 1778 for the murder of Mr. Joshua Spooner, of Brookfield. Bathsheba Spooner, who was convicted of being accessary to the murder, was also executed at the same time.


 [illustration]  The Lives, Last Words, and Dying Speech of EZRA ROSS. JAMES BUCHANAN, and WILLIAM BROOKS, who were executed at WOR|CESTER, on Thursday the 2d Day of July, 1778. for the Murder of Mr. JOSHUA SPOONER, of BROOKFIELD. BATHSHEBA SPOONER, who was convicted of being acessary to the Murder was also executed at the same Time._I JAMES BUCHANAN was a Serjeant in th• Army under General Burgoyne, born in Gla•+gow, in Scotland, aged 36 years, I WILLIAM BROOKS was a private in said army, born i• the parish of Wednesbury, in the county of Staf+ford, in England, aged 27. We together o• February 8th, 1778, left Worcester, with an in+tent to go to Springfield to work. In passing Mr. Spooner's, w• were called in by Alexander Cummings, whom we thought wa• a British soldier. Having •od some time by the fire, he told u• his master was gone from home, but he would go and call hi• mistress, for she had a great regard for the army, as her fath• was in it and one of her brothers. He called her, and she came down, and appeared glad to see us. She asked us, whether we came from the Hill? We told her we had, and were going to Canada, as I, Buchanan, had left my family there. She order+ed breakfast for us, and as soon as it was ready we were desired to go into the sitting-room. We were very much surprised a• this, for we should have thought ourselves well dealt by, to h• received any favor she might see fit to bestow o•〈◊〉 the kitch|en. However we all breakfasted together. The weather bein• very bad, we were asked to stay '•ill it cleared up. As we had 〈◊〉 little money, we accordingly stayed. The weather continued ve•y bad, we stayed there that day and night, I (Buchanan) a• no positive whether it was the first or second day, she told me 〈◊〉 by ourselves, that she and her husband did not agree that he was gone a journey to Princetown, and that he would not be at home soon, that we should not go from thence until th• weather was fair, there being a great fall of snow at this time▪ We very readily consented, and stayed from day to day, ex+pecting M•. Spooner home. Mrs. Spooner getting very fre• in discourse with me (Buchanan) one day told me that she neve• expected Mr. Spooner to return, as there was one Mr. Ross gone with him, who had an ounce of poison, which he had promised her he would give to Mr. Spooner, the first convenient oppor|tunity. The reader must needs think this a very strange circum|stance, that she should make such a discovery to an entire stran|ger. She said at the same time, we should stay 'till we sa• whether Mr. Spooner returned or not. Accordingly we stayed and were never in better quarters, little thinking of the ba• the sed