The popish proselyte the grand fanatick. Or an antidote against the poyson of Captain Robert Everard's Epistle to the several congregations of the non-conformists


THE Popish Proselyte THE GRAND FANATICK.
OR AN ANTIDOTE AGAINST The Poyson of Captain Robert Everard's Epistle to the several Congregations of the Non-conformists.
And many other Signs and Wonders truly did Jesus in the presence of his Dis∣ciples, which are not written in this Book: But these are written that ye might believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that in believing you might have life through his name.
John 20.30, 31.London, Printed for Samuel Tidmarsh, at the Kings Head in Cornhill, next House to the Royal Exchange. MDCLXXXIV.
TO THE READER.AN exact answering of the whole Epistle by Paragraphs, would have swelled my in∣tended little Book in∣to a great Volume; nor did I con∣ceive it needful: and that because the Captain himself hath contracted the pith of all that is pertinent, into his sixth reason against the Scriptures being a Rule; His Argument from Heaven for the
 Roman Church being Judge and Guide; and his six Queries suppo∣sed utterly destructive to, and al∣together unanswerable upon, the grounds of Protestants; and now all these be at large transcribed, examined, and solved: And yet lest the less intelligent Reader should stumble, or the Adversary insult; I have in an admonitory prefatory discourse so far taken notice of all his mostly seeming important conclusions and objections, as to make it apparent that they have nought else, save ignorance, inadvertency, selfishness, and strong delusion to support, and give rise unto them. Nor yet have I made it my only business to pull down (though that must needs be their great work that have to do with Babel-builders) but have all along ascertained what I would or should establish, from such common principles of Religion and Reason, as are assented to by Papists,
 Protestants, and the Ʋniversality at least of Christians. As for re∣viling, had not his own guilt put him on to caution against it, I should never have thought of it; what is of personal concern is oc∣casioned by his own writings, cir∣cumstant to the matter under de∣bate, and all contained in one sin∣gle Page; the whole is closed with a vindication of the Great Saint Augustin from favouring the pro∣ceedings of so grand an Apostate as Robert Everard.
Joseph Harrison.An Answer to Robert Eve∣rard's Epistle to the several Con∣gregations of the Nonconfor∣mists.I Shall at present suppose Robert Everard to be no Romish Jesu∣ited Priest, but Quondam Captain to a Troop of Rebellious Soul∣diers, and do conclude from his own Printed papers, attended with some obvious circumstances, that four things did chiefly concur to the shipwrack∣ing of his Faith; First, Ignorance. Secondly, Inadvertency, or Impru∣dence. Thirdly, Self-interest. Fourthly, A just judgment of God in sending such strong delusions, that they should believe a lie.
The mans ignorance appears, First