A treatise of the consecration of the Sonne of God to his everlasting priesthood And the accomplishment of it by his glorious resurrection and ascention. Being the ninth book of commentaries upon the Apostles Creed. Continued by Thomas Iackson Doctor in Divinity, chaplaine in ordinary to his Maiesty, and president of C.C.C. in Oxford.


A TREATISE OF THE CONSECRATION OF THE SONNE OF God to his everlsting PRIESTHOOD.
AND THE ACCOMPLISHMENT of it by his glorious Resurrection nd Ascention.
BEING THE NINTH BOOK of Commentries upon the Apostles CREED.
CONTINVED BY THOMAS IACKSON Doctor in Divinity, Chpline in ordinry to his MAIESTY, nd President of C. C. C. in OXFORD.
OXFORD, Printed by LEONARD LICHFIELD printer to the Fmous Vniversity. AN. DOM. 1638.
TO THE ROYALL Mtie OF OVR MOST GRACIOVS AND PI∣OVS SOƲERAIGNE CHARLES KING OF GREAT BRITAINE, &c.Most grcious Soverigne,THE only ends or scopes t which my desires, in the first drught of this long worke of comments upō the Apostles Creed, did yme, were first nd principlly the

glory of God, which is the supreme Cuse of cuses, the mine End of ll o∣ther ends, intended by good men or An∣gels: The second, subordinte to this, ws to give stisfction to my longing de∣sires, of dischrging my duty to the Church my Mother, by doing her such service s I ws ble; in setting forth the true worship of God, nd in min∣tining the fith professed by her: The third, subordinte to the second, but principlly to the first, ws to give n c∣compt unto my middle ge how I hd spent my youth, nd to leve  Constt unto my old ge (t which by Gods good providence, beyond my hope or expect∣tion; I m now rrived) tht I hd not ltogether spent my best dies in  drow∣sie sleepe, or which is worse, in wking dremes, or wndring projects, fter

plesure, riches, mbitious hopes, or pri∣vte ends. But being first clled unto Your Mjesties service, in my declining yeres, I tooke the boldnesse upon me, ∣bout some five yeres goe, in supple∣ment of my weke performnces in my Ordinry ttendnce, to dedicte these three Bookes, concerning the knowledge of Iesus Christ, & of him crucified, unto Your Highnesse, these being, (to mine owne pprehension) the best fruites of my best nd flourishing yeres. The mtter or subject of them will not (I tke it) be denied by ny, to be the fittest Theme for the medittions of ll good Christins, ccording to their severll cpcities. And no subject under he∣ven cn be either more profitble, or more delightfull, for contempltive or stronger wits to worke upon: unto whom,

especilly unto such of them, s hve better menes or bilities, then God hi∣therto hth blessed me withll, I leve to mend or finish wht I hve long goe be∣gun, & thus fr prosecuted. Ful time it is for me, but no time (I hope) s yet over∣pst to consecrte the rest of my lbours, unto deth-bed-lerning, nd devoti∣ons, which is the best service tht cn be expected from me t these yeres, nd which the elder I grow, the better ble I trust I shll be to performe; s hving by long experienc