A treatise of direction, how to travell safely and profitably into forraigne countries written by Thomas Neal ...


 [illustration] 

A TREATISE OF DIRECTION, HOW To travell safely, and profitably into Forraigne Countries.
Written by Thomas Neale of Warncford, in the County of Southampton, Esquire.
Oh youth! a greater order doth arise
Of daily Chances: let it not suffice
To see th' adjoyning France: but bravely know
The farthest •ster, and the winds that blow
From Northerne Boreas: see faire Egypts strand,
And that hot Easterne Nabathean land
That views the rising Sun: and that which calls
It selfe from thise red beames, where Phoebus fals.
That at the last thou happily mai'st come
Wiser then great Ulisses to thy home.
Petronius.LONDON, Printed for Humphrey Robinson. 1643.
To his dearely beloved Brother, Mr. VVilliam Neale at Tours in France, or else∣where these.IF all men in a man∣ner (most dear Bro∣ther) applying themselves unto a∣ny action of con∣sequence, may seeme to need, a Counsellor and director: much

more certainly may hee want this ayde, which wandereth through uncertaine passages, and walketh through the unknown wayes of an unstable conversati∣on. And since (as it seemeth to mee) that man hath good, and propitious lucke, which in his doubtfull extremities may have the opportunity to flye unto wholsome and grave counsels: there can nothing be more hap∣pily assigned unto an ingenuous, and well educated nature, then some path or learned directi∣on, which may be rather signed with the lively pourtraicture of eloquence, then with lime or chalke-stone. This noble facul∣tie,

I must confesse, I cannot boast, because it is both unseem∣ly for a teacher of naked truth, to use the adulterate flourishes. of Rhetorique, and also, because it is so meanly apparant in mee, that it will presently decay, if it should bee brought before, the judicious lights of these times: only my chiefe ayme is in this Treatise, to shew and breath forth the ingenuous candour of my minde; and my brotherly af∣fection towards you; if those rules, which in the following subject bee proposed, may by

you bee received with the like kind inclination. There are some (I perswade my selfe) of a light and brain-sick condition, which (being also not few in number) desire to borrow no directions from the store-house of learned Philosophie: and so much con∣temne the rules of contempla∣tion, and the demonstrations which are deduced from our solitary thoughts, that they sup∣pose these Canons, but meere ri∣diculous, and crasie fansies, and the vaine blasts of swelling Ayre. But how much you con∣temne

the sottish opinion of these men, and dislike of this most pernitious tenet a∣gainst all vertuous proceedings I am very well acquainted: having in your childish yeares, heard your labotious Essayes, most elegantly for that age em∣ployed, in the praises and com∣mendations of contemplative men; for there is no man without all question, which desireth (with Ennius) to live the life of a rea