Greenes Orpharion VVherin is discouered a musicall concorde of pleasant histories, many sweet moodes graced vvith such harmonius discords, as agreeing in a delightfull closse, they sound both pleasure and profit to the eare. Heerein also as in a diateheron, the branches of vertue, ascending and descending by degrees: are covnited in the glorious praise of women-kind. VVith diuers tragicall and comicall histories presented by Orpheus and Arion, beeing as full of profit as of pleasure. Robertus Greene, in Artibus Magister.


Greenes Orpharion.
Wherin is discoue∣red
a musicall concorde of pleasant
Histories, many sweet moodes graced vvith
such harmonius discords, as agreeing in a delight∣full
closse, they sound both pleasure and profit
to the eare. Heerein also as in a Diateheron, the branches
of Vertue, ascending and descending by degrees: are covnited in
the glorious praise of women-kind. VVith diuers Tragicall and Comicall Histories
presented by Orpheus and Arion, beeing as full of
profit as of pleasure.
Omne tulit punctum, qui miscuit vtile dulci.Robertus Greene, in Artibus Magister.
AT LONDON,
Printed for Edward VVhite, dwelling at the
little North doore of S. Paules Church: at the
signe of the Gun. 1599.
To the Right Worshipfull Mai∣ster
Robert Carey Esquire, Robert Greene
vvisheth encrease of all hono∣rable
vertues.ENnius (Right Worshipful) had
a Maecenas, though his verses
were rude, & Hippocrates durst
present his pictures though they
were rough. The blindest Bay∣ard
hath a reason to shadow his
presumption: for sayth hee, will
is aboue skill. Soothing my selfe
(right Worshipfull) with their
humours, hauing attempted to
frame out an ORPHARION, to harsh to make a
concord in any cunning eare: yet with old Ennius doating
in my youth as he did in his age: I doe presume to present
my rurall Instrument vnder the shadow of your patronage,
and the rather for that as the poore Cobler durst prefer his
chattring Pye to Augustus, for that the Emperour was af∣fable

and curteous, so hearing your Worship to be indued
with such honourable vertues and plausible qualities, as
drawes men to admire and loue such vnited perfection: I
embolden my selfe to trust vpon your Worships curteous
acceptance, which if it be such as others haue founde and I
hoped for, & that any way this Orpharion may agree with
the daintines of your touch and fingering, the end of my la∣bours
and the summe of my desires consort in one
sympathie, and in that hope, I com∣mit
your Worship to the
Almightie.
Your VVorships humbly to commaund, Ro. Greene.To the Gentlemen Readers
Health.GEntlemen, I haue long promi∣sed
my Orpharion, and because
I would not frustrate your ex∣pectation:
at last it is leapt into
the Stacioners Shoppe, but not
from my Study, for then might
you thinke I had sweld with the
mountaines, and brought foorth
a Mouce, but the Printer had it
long since▪ marry whether his
presse were out of tune, Paper deere, or some other secret
delay driue it off, it hath line this twelue