The genuine experience, and dying address, of Mrs. Dolly Taylor, of Reading, (Vermont,) who departed this life, May 19th, 1794. / Actually dictated by herself, and taken from her lips, but a little before her death. ; Now published, with her husband's testimony concerning her, for whom he mourns, but not without hope.


THE GENUINE EXPERIENCE, AND DYING ADDRESS, OF MRS. DOLLY TAYLOR, OF READING, (VERMONT,) Who departed this life, May 19th, 1794.
Actually dictated by herself, and taken from her lips, but a little before her DEATH.
Now Published, With her HUSBAND'S testimony concerning her, for whom he mourns, but not without hope.
The fourth edition;—Carefully revised by the author.
BENNINGTON: PRINTED FOR AMOS TAYLOR, AND SOLD BY HIM AT HIS BOOK STORE IN WHITINGHAM. 1796.
THE GENUINE EXPERIENCE, &c.I DOLLY TAYLOR, of Reading, being ap|prehensive that my dissolution draws very nigh, have requested the following line to be published after my decease in my name, as from a dying per|son.
I was born in Chelmsford, near Boston, June 16th, 1755; was brought up from my infancy by a kind brother, who took care of my mother (as my father died one month to a day before I was born, and had been deprived of his sight from his child|hood, so that he was stone blind.)—My mother and brother gave me a good education; but my mind, however was given to vanity and civil re|creation, so that I was introduced to the best of company among my young companions.
In early life I enjoyed my health, and a fine flow of animal spirits, but lived without God in the world, and thought myself happy in the good esteem of all my friends and acquaintance.—I had no great concern about the welfare of my immor|tal soul, until the day I was seventeen years of age. Having spent the night before in company, I was looking that morning on the bright and rolling flame of an heating oven, when the dread|ful thoughts of a burning Hell struck my mind with horror and amazement!—I saw I had been dancing over the brink of destruction. Having never before put this question home to myself — What would become of my poor soul? I was now convinced that my reputation among my compan|ions would never be any security for me, in the day of God's fiery anger. I saw I had offended Almigh|ty
God, by giving myself up to vanity. My distress of mind encreased under this conviction, until I took to my chamber by myself and must leave it to those whose terrors of conscience have been very great, to judge of my case by their own experi|ence.—The same company I had been with but a few hours before, in all the sprightliness of youth|ful vanity, made application to me, to know when we should have another set dance; but I bid them a final adieu, and never joined myself in such company since; and it is my earnest desire, that all my young friends and acquaintance might be as effectually weaned from the love of such soul de|stroying company, as I was at that time, and have ever since been.
My distress of mind, however, c