Bishop Barlow's state of the case, whether any books may be lent out of Sir Thomas Bodley's library?:  Occasioned by Mr. Selden's soliciting the University for certain MSS. out of it.






Bishop Brlow's Stt of th Cs, Whthr ny Books my  lnt out of Sir THOMAS BODLEY's Lirry? Osion y Mr. Sln's soliiting th UNIVERSITY for rtin MSS. out of it.
To th READER.THE following Cs ws rwn up y Dr. Brlow, thn H-Kpr of th Puli Lirry t Oxfor, n ftrwrs Bishop of Linoln, on Aount of th Rqust m to th Univrsity y Mr. Sln, tht thy woul ln him rtin MSS. out of th si Lirry. It ws wll known tht Mr. Sln h on of th most urious Colltions of Books in Europ, n tht to ny him woul, in ll Proility,   grt Dtrimnt to th Puli Lirry, h hving lr his Intntion of stowing thm upon it. But notwithstning this, th Univrsity, upon mtur Dlirtion, rturn him Answr, tht thy oul not pr∣mit th Books to go out without Brh of Sttut, n trying th grt Trust rpos in thm. Howvr, thy tol him withl, tht thy woul, y Virtu of th solut Powr log in thm, otin  lgl Dispnstion of th Sttut, tht h shoul hv Thr out t  Tim, provi h woul giv Bon of 100 l. for thir Rstitution. But tht ws so muh rsnt y him, tht h struk out tht Prt of his Will, y whih h h givn thm his Books, n with som Pssion lr, thy shoul nvr hv thm. Whih whn th Exutors sw, thy stuk t th Mttr  littl; ut hving onsir ttr of it, thy m to this Rsolution: Tht thy wr to  th Exutors of Mr. Sln's Will, n not of his Pssion; so thy m goo wht h h intn in ol Bloo, n pss ovr wht his Pssion h suggst to him.
It is thought propr to print this Cs for th Stisftion of suh Pr∣sons, who prhps, ing ignornt of th For of th Sttut, my tk it s  grt Affront, if, upon Soliittion, thy  ni ny Book out of th Lirry, whrs th Sttut is so xprss, tht thr is no out th Univrsity will nvr ttmpt to ispns with it, unlss upon Prospt of som suh xtrorinry Bnftion s Mr. Sln's, whos Books wr of so instiml  Vlu.

CASE. Qury. Whthr ny Books my  lnt out of Sir Thoms Boly's Lirry?1. SIR Thoms Boly's Sttut (onfirm' in Convotion Jun. 20. Ann. 1610.) sith thus: —Sttuimus, t in formm PERPETUI Eiti, t INDIS∣PENSABILIS orinmus; ut NULLUS  tro, CUJUSCUNQUE LOCI, AUT STATUS, furit (OMNI prtxtu, us, rtion ssnt) QUODCUN∣QUE Volumn, siv tnis lligtum, siv solutum (QUANTALIBET prstit CAUTIONE, ut Fijussorius,  liro on fi rhino) tum, ut ommo∣tum ht. It is impossil to mk ny Prohiition mor Prmptory, n Ctgoril;—
1. No Book whtsovr n  lnt.2. Nor ny Prson whtsovr orrow.3. Nor ny Cution how grt sovr  mitt.4. Upon no Cus ssign, or Prtn whtsovr.5. An this Eit is lr Prptul n Inispnsl.6. An th Rson of ll this Riginss is givn in th Prf to th Sttut (y Sir Thoms Boly, n th Univrsity) tht thy knw y mny s Exmpls, tht suh lning of Books h n  grt Loss n Ruin to mny Lirris.—Quonim vriis ntti tmporis xmplis, um in Ami h nostr, tum in liis hujus rgni prtius unmus, unè nimis oti sumus, QUANTAM lrrimis PLE∣RISQUE Biliothis RUINAM, t PERNICIEM, invxrit frquns Lirorum COMMODATIO.II. It is tru th Pious Founr of tht Lirry, (who y th fornm