Truths victory over tyrants and tyranny.:  Being the tryall of that worthy assertor of his countreys freedoms, Lieftenant [sic] Colonell John Lilburne, defender of the ancient and known laws of England, against men and devills, whether in King, Parliament, Army, or Councell of state. Guild-hall London, Octob. 26. Freed in open court, from his unjust and illegall charge of high-treason, and cruell imprisonment in the Tower, by the unbyassed and just verdict of this jewry, whose names are here inserted; Miles Pettit, Holburn-Condu. Stephen Iles, Friday-street. Abraham Smith, Smithfield. John King Smithfield. Nicholas Murrin, Gosling-str. Thomas Daintie, Cheapside. Edmund Keysar, Holb-bridge Edward Perkins Smithfield. Ralph Packman, Smithfield. William Cummins, Cheap. Symon Weeden, Bredstr. Henry Tooley, Bredstreet. All good men and true.


TRUTHS VICTORY Over TYRANTS AND TYRANNY.
Being the TRYALL of that Worthy Assertor of his Countreys Freedoms, Lieftenant Colonell JOHN LILBURNE, Defender of the Ancient and known Laws of England, against Men and Devills, whether in King, Parliament, Army, or Councell of State.
Guild-hall London, Octob. 26.
Freed in open Court, from his unjust and Illegall Charge of High-Treason, and cruell Imprisonment in the Tower, by the unbyassed and just Verdict of this Jewry, whose Names are here inserted;
Miles Pettit, Holburn-Condu.Stephen Iles, Friday-street.Abraham Smith, Smithfield.John King Smithfield.Nicholas Murrin, Gosling-str.Thomas Daintie, Cheapside.Edmund Keysar, Holb-bridgeEdward Perkins Smithfield.Ralph Packman, Smithfield.William Cummins, Cheap.Symon Weeden, Bredstr.Henry Tooley, Bredstreet.All Good Men and true.
Printed in the fall of Tyranny. 1649.
TRUTHS VICTORY Over TYRANTS AND TYRANNY.I Should before this have given you the Tryall of honest John Lilburne in Print, by Order of the House, but that it was so rediculous on their part, that they cannot endure so much as to hear of it; so farr as I can gather from Mr. Hinde, and others who took his Tryall in Short-writing, (besides my self) being both eye and ear witnesses of their Proceedings against him in that Court.
His Charge was not one Jot lesse then High-Treason (with a new found-diddle) for which that honest Liev. Colonell
John Lilburn, was a week before he came to Guild-hall condem∣ned by their Tyrannicall Counsell of State, only they would venter at a legall Tryall, thinking with their bigge looks, and Guards of Souldiers to make honest John and the Iewrie fay after them; but it proved otherwise; The most materiall things that the forsworne Iudges did accuse him of, was.
THat he the said Iohn Lilburne did at or about Easter last, 1648. and divers times before and since, against the Peace of the Common-wealth of England, and the Testimony of his owne Conscience (not setting God before his eyes) most per∣fideously, wickedly, perniciously, and Treasonably write, and cause to be Printed, Published and Divulged divers Papers and dangerous Books of very ev