The defence of militarie profession Wherein is eloquently shewed the due commendation of martiall prowesse, and plainly prooued how necessary the exercise of armes is for this our age.


THE Defence of Militarie profession.
Wherein is eloquently shewed the due commendation of Martiall prowesse, and plainly prooued how necessary the exercise of Armes is for this our age.
❧ IMPRIN∣ted at London by Hen∣ry Middleton, for Iohn Harison. 1579.
 [illustration] VERO NIHIL VERIVS
¶ TO THE RIGHT honorable, Edward de Ʋere, Earle of Oxenford, vicount Bulbecke, Lord of Escales and Bladesmere, and Lord great Cham∣berlaine of England.EXperience bea∣reth such a soueraigntie ouer all thinges humane and diuine, that without it the quality or power ei∣ther of worde, deede, de∣uise, or matter, cannot make it selfe knowen to the vnderstanding of mē: for the heauenly trueth iustifieth it selfe by the effects of his nature and power, made apparant to the eyes & capacities of earthly creatures.
Adam not well staid vpō the trueth of Gods word, transgressed the cōmandement, & feeling the plagues of his offence, had thereby experience of the power & trueth of his Almightie Creator.
The first worlde ouerflowing in wickednesse, was drowned in the flood of Gods vengeance: to geeue experience to the world that ensued, what it is to con∣temne his worde and Prophets.
Noah beleeued the word of the Lord, and obeying his commandement, prepared the Arke & was saued in the flood, he & all his family: by experience wher∣of the world is made to vnderstand the power and as∣surance of Gods trueth and fauour towarde his elect people.
The Lord willed Moses to denounce his plagues a∣gainst Egypt, and in the effect of his power & trueth he accomplished the same vpon man and beast, vpon fruit and tree, vpon earth and water: the experience whereof made Moses and the Israelites so hardie in fayth, that they tooke their way through the red Sea, as through the fieldes on drie land.
Pharao in the hardnesse of his heart pursued the Is∣raelites, and was drowned, he and all his armie in the pathes where Iacob went drye shod▪ whereby all the kings and princes of the earth had & haue experience, what it is to contemne God, to persecute his people, & to despise his worde and ministers.
The like experience made Iosuah bolde to lead Is∣rael through the deepe waters of Iorden: where they passed on foot, and went dry shod to land.
The Israelites breaking the couenant of the Lorde their God, & standing in their rebellion were destroi∣ed out of the land of Iudah, and Ierusalem, and made slaues to the Chaldeans: whereby they were taught by experience (and so are wee by the same example) what it is to despise the Lord of hostes, and to stand in disobedience against his maiestie.
The Lord restoring Iacob out of Chaldea to his in∣heritance againe, according as he had promised by the mouthes of his Prophets: doth teach vs by experience

how faithfull he is in his promises, that we therefore should rest vpon him