Sir Thomas Rowe his speech at the councell-table touching brasse-money, or against brasse-money, with many notable observations thereupon, Iuly, 1640.


Sir Thomas Rowe HIS SPEECH At the Councell-Table touch∣ing Brasse-Money, or against Brasse-Money; with many notable observations thereupon, Iuly, 1640
Printed Anno 1641.
Sir Thomas Rowe his Speech at the Councell Table, touching Brasse-Mony, or against Brasse-Money, with many notable observations thereupon, Iuly, 1640.MY Lords, since it hath pleased this Honorable table, to command amongst others my poore opinion concern∣ing this waighty proposition of money, I must hum∣bly crave pardon, if with that freedome that becometh my duty to my good and gracious Master, and my obedience to your great commands, I deliver it so.
I cannot my Lords, but assuredly conceive this intended pro∣ject of infeobling the Coyn, will trench very far both into the honor of Justice, and profit of my Royall Master.
All estates do stand Magis fama quam vi as Tacitus saith of Rome; And wealth in every Kingdome is one of the essentiall marks of their greatnesse, and is best expressed in the measures and purity of their moneys. Hence it was that so long as the Romane Empire, a pattern of the best Government held up their glory▪ or greatnesse, they ever maintained with little or no change the standard of their Coyn, but after the loose time of Commodus had led in need by excesse, and so by that shift of chang∣ing the standard, the Majesty of that Empire fell by degrees. And as Vopiscus saith, the steps by which that State descended, were visible most by the generall alteration of their Coynes; and there is no surer simptomes of consumption in State, then the corruption of the Money.
What Renowne is left to the Posterity of Edw. 1. in amend∣ing

the standard both in puritie and weight, from that of elder and barbarous times; it must needs stick as a blemish upon Princes that do the contrary.
Thus we see it was with Hen. 6. who after he had begun with a baiting the measures, he afterwards fell to abasing the matter; and granted Commission to Missend, and others to practise Al∣camie to serve his Mint.
The extremity the State in generall felt by this agrievance, be∣sides the dishonor it layd upon the person of the King, was not the least disadvantage his disloyall kinsman tooke, to ingrace himselfe into the peoples favours, to his Soveraigns Reign.
When Hen. the 8th. had gained as much of power and glory a∣broad, of love and obedience at home as ever any, he suffered a losse by this Rock.
When his Daughter Queene Elizabeth came to the Crowne, she was happier in Councell to amend that error of her Father, for in a memoriall of the Lord Treasurer Burleighs his hand, I finde that he and Sir Thomas Smith, a grave and learned man, advised the Queen that it was the Crown, and the true wealth of her selfe and people, to reduce the standard to the ancient party, and purity of her great Grandfather Edward the 4th. and that it was not the s