The case of Sir John Lenthall Knight, Marshall of the Upper-Bench prison humbly presented to those in authority and to all rational and indifferent men.


THE CASE OF Sir JOHN LENTHALL Knight, Marshall of the Vpper-Bench prison. Humbly Presented to those in AUTHORITY, AND To all Rational and indifferent men.
London, Printed in the yeer 1653.
THE CASE OF Sir JOHN LENTHAL Knight, Marshal of the Upper-Bench Prison.IF that malice which hath brought this affliction upon me could have been contented with ordi∣nary and legall prosecution; and if my estate and livelihood were the things only in question, and my good name not sullied with infamous and filthy slanders, I should in all probability rather patiently have sate down under my sufferings, then have been induc'd to lay open my condition unto the World. But since I cannot but be of opinion that many Per∣sons both of worth and conscience, content to rest in the first Representations, may by this means be brought to a true and just knowledge of the whole matter, and consequently be reduc'd to the mode∣ration
of doing what is but just, and that my good Name, (which to an honest man ought to be dearer then life) may be in some measure retrived, I could not but put down as well the true circumstances of my condition, as the violent and passionate proceedings of my prosecutors against me.
I have been these twenty two yeers together Mar∣shall of the (Kings Bench, now the) upper Bench Prison by Letters Patents under the great seal of England, wherein as I am inwardly satisfied to have behaved my self uprightly and legally, so till this storme overtook me, I hope it was without infamy or re∣proach. But it is the misfortune of such employ∣ments as mine, that we must necessarily in doing our offices raise up to our selves enemies. For it is so difficult, if not impossible, to carry our selves even between Creditor and Debtor, that there is no avoid∣ing of it, but one of them will be dissatisfied. For if the Debtour be either unruly, or enable to put in secu∣rity for his true imprisonment, and so kept safe, he straight crieth out of Restraint, and harsh us•ge; if he put in security, and lie in the Rules, or legally go abroad about his occasions with a Keeper, then does the Creditour cry out of too much Liber•y, and it may be files for a Bill for an escape. So that let a man carry himself with all the care and circumspecti∣on which is possible, he shall be sure to meet with clamours and enemies, and these so much the more, in regard that being persons either in low condition or decayed fortunes, they account it somewhat either of ease or pleasure to reville or vex those whom they look upon as the instruments of their misfortunes.
Yet upon the dissolution of the late Parliament there was an Oder obtained from the new Counsell of Sate, bearing the date the of April 1653. em∣powring  _____  to enquire into all matters concerning Prisons and Keepers of Prisons; by vertue whereof, I was sum∣moned to appear before th