A narrative of the captivity of Nehemiah How, who was taken by the Indians at the Great-Meadow Fort above Fort-Dummer, where he was an inhabitant, October 11th 1745. : Giving an account of what he met with in his travelling to Canada, and while he was in prison there. : Together with an account of Mr. How's death at Canada. : [Seven lines from Psalms]


A NARRATIVE Of the Captivity OF Nehemiah How, Who was taken by the Indians at the Great-Meadow-Fort above Fort-Dummer, where he was an Inhabitant, October 11th 1745.
Giving an Account of what he met with in his travelling to Canada, and while he was in Prison there.
Together with an Account of Mr. HOW's Death at Canada.
Psal. cxxxvii.1, 2, 3, 4.By the Rivers of Babylon, there we sat down—We hanged our Harps upon the Wil|lows, in the midst thereof. For there they that car|ried us away captive, required of us a Song; and they that wasted us, required of us Mirth, saying, Sing us one of the Songs of Zion. How shall we sing the Lord's Song in a strange Land.
BOSTON: N. E. Printed and Sold opposite to the Prison In Queen-Street. 174•.
A Narrative &c.AT the Great-Meadow-Fort fourteen Miles above Fort-Dummer, October 11th 1745, where I was an Inhabitant, I went out from the Fort about 50 Rods to cut Wood; and when I had done, I walk'd towards the Fort, but in my Way heard the crackling of Fences behind me, and turning about, saw 12 or 13 Indians, with red painted Heads, running after me: On which I cry'd to God for Help, and ran, and hollow'd as I ran, to alarm the Fort; but by that I had ran ten Rods, theIndians came up with me & took hold of me: At the same Time the Men at the Fort shot at the Indians, & kill'd one on the Spot, wounded another, who died 14 Days after he got Home, and likewise shot a Bullet thro' the Powder-Horn of one that had hold of me. They then led me into theSwamp &pinion'd me. I then committed myCase toGod, and pray'd, that since it was his Will to deliver me into the Hands of these cruel Men, I might find Favour in their Eyes: Which Request, God of his infiniteMercy was pleased to grant; for they were generally kind to me while I was with 'em: Some of the Indians,

at that Time, took the Charge of me, othes ran into the Field to kill Cattle. They led me about half a Mile; where we stay'd in open Sight of the Fort, 'till the Indians who were killing Cattle came to us laden with Beef: Then they went a little further to a House, where they stay'd to cut the Meat from the Bones, and cut the Helve off my Ax, and stuck it into the Ground, pointing the Way we went.
Then we travel'd along by the RiverSide▪ and when we had got about threeMiles, I espied aCanoe coming down on the further Side the River, with David Rugg & Robert Baker, belonging to our Fort. I made as muchNoise as I could, by Hamming&c. that they might see us before theIndians saw them, and so get ashore, & happily escape; but the Indians saw them, & shot a-cross the River 20 or 30 Guns at them, and kill'd the first mentio