The true report of a late practise enterprised by a papist with a yong maiden in Wales, accompted emongst our Catholiques in those partes for a greater prophetise, then euer was the holie maide of Kent, till now on Sundaie beyng the iiii. of Marche this present yere 1582. in the Cathedrall Churche at Chester, before the whole assemblie then at a sermon she confessed how she had been seduced by a ronegate priest, and how by his instructions she had feined to see certaine visions, whiche like wise followe in due forme. The pervsyng whereof, the reformed Protestaunte shall finde cause worhtie to laugh at: the wilfull papist matter is to bee ashamed at: and all sortes of people good example to be warned at: truly set doune without any maner of parciallitie, by Barnabe Riche gentleman. Pervsed and allowed accordyng to the order appointed.


The true report of a late prac∣tise enterprised by a Papist, with a yong Maiden in Wales, accompted emongst our Catholiques in those partes for a greater Pro∣phetise, then euer was the Holie Maide of Kent, till now on Sundaie beyng the iiij. of Marche this pre∣sent yere 58. in the Cathedrall Churche at Che∣ster, before the whole assemblie then at a Sermon she confessed, how she had been seduced by a ronegate Priest, and how by his instructions she had feined to see certaine Visions, whiche likewise followe in due forme. The pervsyng whereof, the reformed Prote∣staunte shall finde cause worthie to laugh at: the wilfull Papist matter to bee ashamed at: and all sortes of people good exam∣ple to be warned at: Truly set doune without any ma∣ner of parciallitie, by Barnabe Riche gentleman.
Malui me diuitem esse quàm vocari.Pervsed and allowed accordyng to the order appointed.
¶ Imprinted at London by Robert Walley dwellyng in Paules Church yard. 58.
¶TO THE RIGHT HO∣norable Sir Fraunsis VValsingam Knight, principall Secretarie to her Highnesse and one of her Maiesties moste Honou∣rable priuie Counsaile: Barnabe Riche wi∣sheth increase of honor, continuance of healthe and happie estate.AS in all Actions and attemptes (Right Honorable) it is moste requisite to choose out suche as are moste politique and prudent performers, so in causes of prote∣ction it is moste necessarie to account of suche as are greatest fauoures of the cause, whereuppon: knowyng your Honor to bee a Piller and vnder∣proppe of true Christianitie, a maintainer of Re∣ligion, and a zealous professor of the Gospell, J thought it not amisse, to offer these trifles (in wisemens Judgementes, yet diuine miracles in the wilfull and Ignoraunt Papistes opinion) to your Honor, to be safcundited vnder your graue title, and the rather, for that my simplicitie shall finde sauegarde vnder so Honorable a name, and my good meanyng (whiche would stretche farre

if abilitie were corespondent) might be manifest vnto you, who haue bounde me by seuerall good turnes, and in whom those in necessitie alwaies finde refuge.
Maie it please you therefore to giue it the o∣uerreading,