A declaration and catholick exhortation to all Christian princes to succour the Church of God and realme of France. Written by Peter Erondelle, natife of Normandie. Faithfully translated out of the French


A
Declaration and Catho∣lick
exhortation to all Chri∣stian
Princes to succour the
Church of God and Realme
of France.
Written by Peter Erondelle, natife
of Normandie.
Faithfully translated out of the French.
 [illustration] 
AT LONDON,
Imprinted for Edward Aggas. 1586.
¶To all true louers of the
pure Gospell and holy doctrine of
Iesus Christ, and to all those that
desire the preseruation of the Realme
of France, Peter Erondelle wi∣sheth
health in the Lord.I Doubt not but doe sted∣fastly
perceiue, that who∣soeuer
shall consider of my
calling wil disdain to looke
vpon this briefe Treatise,
as proceeding frō a person
vnworthie such a worke,
yea and will maruaile from whence J should
gather such boldnesse, sith I am not adorned or
furnished with any humaine wisedome where∣with
to beautifie or rather paint out the same.
But what aunswer shall J make them? For it
is not I that haue wrought this woorke, but
euen GOD himselfe through the vertue and
power of the holy Ghost working in mee, who
word by word hath shewed and enstructed me
in all that is herein set downe, as vsing mee a
poore and miserable sinner to indure and per∣swade
or rather commaund all those that haue
the feare of God and doctrine of Iesus Christ
before their eyes, to succour his afflicted peo∣ple
who are on euery side oppressed, but princi∣pally

in our France by some tyrants, vnto whō
J present not this briefe discourse, for I am suf∣ficiently
perswaded that this kinde of people do
but seeke occasion to subuert & set at va•••…nce
such a Commonwealth as before remayned in
peace and vnitie: But vnto you my brethren,
doe J direct the same, desiring you not to dis∣daine
the sight therof, but in equitie and with∣out
al passion (other thē reason) to reade it, not∣withstanding
therein you finde some fault:
Neither would I herein seeke to flatter or con∣ceale
the aucthors of these present troubles:
namely the house of Guyze, who are the chiefe
Captaines and conductors thereof, as also I
should get nothing by concealing them, as being
a matter which euery man knoweth better
then J can tell them how it standeth. Besides I
will not delay the time in beautifying this dis∣course
with any painted speech to adorne it
withall, as some doe when they seeke and goe a∣bout
to perswade lyes in stead of trueth vnder
the colour of a pleasant phrase and painted
speech which is sufficient to leade the Readers
thereunto, and lulling them on sleepe procureth
them, as afore is sayde, to admit lyes in liew of
truth, euen as the Mermaide who by her plea∣sant
song ouercommeth the Saylers, and when
they be at rest deuoureth them all. J would not

therefore imitate them, but onely speake plainly
according to all the wordes that haue fallen in∣to
my mouth whereby God hath holpen me to
bring the same to passe. To