Pneumat-apologia. Or, An apology for the power & liberty of the Spirit as at first to give a being to, so still to give a blessing by his ordinances. In three sermons preacht at Great Budworth, to some persons of honour, and several of the clergy then present to communicate in reference to the late act. By James Livesey, A.M. & vicar of Budworth.


ΠΝΕΥΜΑΤ-ΑΠΟΛΟΓΙΑ.
OR, AN APOLOGY FOR THE POWER & LIBERTY OF THE SPIRIT; As at first To give a Being to, so still to give a Blessing by his Ordinances. IN THREE SERMONS PREACHT AT Great BƲDWORTH, TO Some Persons of Honour, and several of the Clergy then present to com∣municate in reference to the late ACT.
By James Livesey, A.M. & Vicar of Budworth.
LONDON, Printed by A. M. for Robert Clavel, in Little-Britain, 1674.
To the Honourable Sir George Warburton, Baronet.Lord of Budworth Magna, Aston, Apleton, Sutton, Warburton, Winnington, Marthal, Pulford, &c.And his Incomparably Accomplisht & most Noble Lady, Madam Diana Warburton.And Right Worshipful, William Tutchett, Of Whitley,EsqHis Majesties High-Sheriff for the Coun∣ty Palatine of Chester.And his Vertuous and worthily Honoured Consort, Madam Martha Tutchett.
With the rest of the Gentry, and others of the Congregation of Great Budworth.Honourable, Worshipful, & Worthy Sirs,WHat was then (though not affecti∣onately enough) presented to your attentive and judicious ears, is now most humbly offered to your discerning eyes; the good Spirit of the Lord hand it down into your Hearts, the best receptacle of Divine Truths. 'Twas my work to suit the
Text to that Occasion, and the Sermons to the Text; yours to suit your Attentions to the Ser∣mons, and His to do us all good, we doing so. If any shall demand why these were then Preached, or are now published? your Honour can satisfie the former, your Worship the latter. That I have mounted the Dedication so high, to so many, (when to every individual a just volume had been an incompetent Oblation) this presumption I must answer for.
As Artaxerxes that great Persian Monarch accepted a present of Water from a poor Labou∣rer (with a smiling countenance) not having need thereof; for may (perhaps) your Generosity these plain, unpolished Sermons from one under so ma∣ny Obligations to serve you. The censures of the ignorant I have no reason to regard, nor need I fear those of the Learned (who can do much bet∣ter with their Pens, yet do nothing) for de Stra∣minibus non curat invidia.—The carelesness of many who wofully and wilfully squander away Sacrament-days without due observation, hath awakened my Pen to remind them of the precious∣ness and us•fulness of this Ordinance, and of their duties to their never-dying Souls. Who sees not some so sick that they complain they cannot live, and yet so sinful that they dare not die? before another day any of us (the most young or strong) may be in another world; though we shall live out, yet surely we cannot out-live the determin'd time. These serious thoughts of Death cannot
bri