A brief discovery of that which is called the popish religion with a word to the Inquisition discovering their seat of injustice and cruelty, and also a word to them who are in bondage under this deceit that upholdeth the Beasts worship. And a word to the Pope who calls himself a bishop and is not, his throne of deceit is discovered, by the Spirit of the eternall God. / Given forth by me who am called of the world. A. Gargill.



A BRIEF DISCOVERY OF THAT Which is called the Popish RELIGION WITH A word to the Inquisition discovering their seat of Injustice and Cruelty,
And also a word to them who are in Bondage under this deceit that upholdeth the Beasts Worship.
And a word to the Pope who calls himself a Bishop and is not, his throne of deceit is discovered, by the Spirit of the Eternall God.
Given forth by me who am called of the World. A. GARGILL
LONDON, Printed for Giles Calvert at the black spread Eagle neer the West end of Pauls, 1656.




A brief discovery of that which is called the Popish Religion, with a word to the Inquisition, discovering their seat of Injustice and Cruelty, and also a word to them who are in Bondage under this deceipt, that upholdeth the Beasts worship.
FRIENDS,MInde the light of Christ Jesus, him, by whom the world was made, who will lead you to righte∣ousness, and holiness, in him there is no strife, nor no debate; you are guided by the Prince of the Air, who leadeth to iniquity, and all man∣ner of abhomination against the Lord and his anointed; your imitation, and false worship lyes in the fall of Adam, your guide is the Serpent full of subtilty, and invention, and pride, cove∣tousness, and all manner of evill is exalted in you; your fruits are the deeds or darkness out of the right of Jesus; bring your deeds to the light, let that judge your ways and practises, whether they are wrought in God yea or nay. God is the guide of all them that fear him, he leads unto righteousness; but your wayes are deceit, and abhomination, they are wrought by Magick art, the Magicians of Egypt imitated Moses, who had the power of God, by the Devill were the• guided to work by subtilty for their glory, but that glory had an end, and so will yours in time, the Lords hand is against your deceit, your abhominable pride and wickedness which standeth in your deceit, you are deceivers of souls for your own advantage, you seek the fleece and starve the flock, by this your magick authority and conjuration, which you have gathered in by the Prince of the air; the Devill is your God whom you serve, he was a deceiver from the beginning, by him you are led to deceive the
people of their eternall happiness to be led by your conjuration, and your Necromancy, The Prince of the air leadeth you to airy imagi∣nations without substance, Christ is the substance, and him you know not to be your guide, you are guided by another, the Harlot is your guide, the well favoured Harlot decking her self, making of Images, and painting of likenesses of things with