A discourse, delivered in the Presbyterian Church, in the city of Baltimore, the 22d of February, 1800.--the day dedicated to the memory of Gen. George Washington. By the Rev. Patrick Allison, D.D.


A DISCOURSE, DELIVERED IN THE Presbyterian Church, IN THE CITY of BALTIMORE, THE 22d of February, 1800.—the DAY DEDICATED TO THE MEMORY OF Gen. George Washington.
BY THE REV. PATRICK ALLISON, D. D.
BALTIMORE, Printed by W. PECHIN—for the Editor of the AMERICAN.
A Discourse, &c.2 Chron. 35, 24.AND ALL JUDAH AND JERUSALEM MOURNED FOR JOSIAH.
THE mourning of affectionate survivors for deceased friends, prevails among all kindreds and languages on earth without exception; it is co-ex|tended with death's unlimited sway, and will descend down through the unborn ages of all future time, 'till the universal conqueror shall be subdued. The custom is not blameable, but eminently laudable, as evincing a tender susceptible disposition which both Reason and Revelation approve.
THE mourning of States and Nations over con|spicuous merit departed, is likewise common and equally commendable. When transcendently useful characters are removed, the loss must be severely felt, and will be sincerely deplored. Let the lamentations of both kinds proceed even to an extreme—palliating circumstances may induce us to commiserate the extravagance as a pardonable weakness, rather than blame it as a criminal excess. Corresponding appearances of the impressions made will be displayed,

lively evidences of them will be exhibited, on every suitable occasion. Should these indications of inward distress also pass moderate bounds, sympathetic spec|tators will again find an adequate apology. Persons dear to us as our own souls are taken forever away. "The survivors die"—no testimony of regard seems too great to bestow on their precious memories. With equal readiness the heart and hand expand to attest our veneration for the father of his country, for the friend of mankind called from the land of the living. Superior attainments in religious excellence may give some an extraordinary self-command, which enables them to controul the usual tenderness of hu|manity, so as to restrain expressions of grief within so|ber limits. Such acquisitions will shew their reality in an habitual course of exemplary virtue; where this is wanting, and a steady attention is paid to the dictates of cool deliberate saving, under sore bereavements▪ we perceive not the energy of religious principle, but genuine proofs of an unfeeling and insensible make. We do well then to imitate the conduct of the He|brews mentioned in the text, when a similar occur|rence brings it to our remembrance, and recommends it our adoption.
THE favorite of God and Man for whom they sorrowed, gave early presages of future eminence, and 'till near the fortieth year of his life in which he fell, undeviatingly realized their fond expectations. It is no wonder if they wailed their irreparable loss in unusual strains of woe. To mourn for him