A relation of the invasion and conquest of Florida by the Spaniards under the command of Fernando de Soto written in Portuguese by a gentleman of the town of Elvas, now Englished. To which is subjoyned two journeys of the present Emperour of China into Tartary in the years 1682 and 1683 : with some discoveries made by the Spaniards in the island of California, in the year 1683.


A RELATION OF THE Invasion and Conquest OF FLORIDA BY THE SPANIARDS, Under the Command of FERNANDO de SOTO.
Written in Portuguese by a Gentleman of the Town of ELVAS.
Now ENGLISHED.
To which is Subjoyned Two Journeys of the present Emperour of CHINA into Tartary in the Years 1682, and 1683.
With some Discoveries made by the Spaniards in the Island of CALIFORNIA, in the Year 1683.
London: Printed for Iohn Lawrence, at the Angel in the Poultry over against the Compter. 1686.
THE PREFACE.IT is not without reason that men admire those first Conquerours, who boldly ventured their Lives to discover to us a New World; and the Obligation that Mankind has to them upon that account, is acknowledg∣ed on all hands. We owe no less, how∣ever, to those who have taken the pains to preserve the memory of their Con∣quests; and without exposing us to the fatigues and dangers, which those great men so bravely surmounted, make us by their Writings relish that pure and unal∣layed pleasure wherewith the first disco∣very of things commonly tickles and flat∣ters the Imagination, no less for their Novelty than Renown. Now this be∣ing a pleasure mingled with a great deal

of instruction, since according to thes•… Models men are to take their measure•… for the like Enterprizes, it must be gran∣ted that the publick cannot have too ma∣ny Histories of Expeditions of that na∣ture. This is apparent enough by the many Relations of the Conquest of Per•… and New-Spain, which have been all gene∣rally approved of abroad: For accor∣ding to the diversity of humours, men •…ye things curiously, and give the publick the view they have had of them. Some love Fights and Battels, and describe them very well in general; others who are pleased with the same subject, apply themselves to the relation of singular Actions: One man makes it his business to write the Natural History of the Plants and Animals of a Country; another a∣gain, the Customs and Inclinations of the Inhabitants. In a word, it may be said that this diversity of humours produces different Relations, which serve recipro∣cally as Commentaries one for another;

and from whence the Curious who read with discretion, draw the compleat knowledge of the History of a Country or Nation. The truth is, there are not so many Relations extant of Florida (which is the name the Spaniards gave to all that part of America, that lies to the Northward of Mexico or New-Spain, before the English and other Nations set∣led Plantations there) as there is of Peru and New-Spain: however, they are no •…ess curious, especially this Relation now published, which has the preference