By His Excellency Collonel Benjamin Fletcher captain general and governour in chief of His Majesties province of New-York, &c. A proclamation[.] Whereas many of the souldiers of His Majesties four companys, appointed for the security and defence of this province, have deserted His Majesties service ... I have therefore thought fit ... to prohibit all persons whatsoever from harbouring or entertaining any of the said souldiers ... And all justices of the peace, sheriffs, bailiffs ... are strictly required to examine and take up all persons whatsoever, that are strangers ... Given at His Majesties fort in New York, the 4th day of November ... annoq; Domini 1697.


 [illustration]  By His Excellency Collonel Benjamin Fletcher Captain General and Governour in Chief of his Majesties Province of New-York, &c. A PROCLAMATIONWHEREAS many of the Souldiers of his Majesties four Companys, appointed for the Security and Defence of this Province, have deserted His Majesties Service, and either by the Negli|gence and Re•isness of the Officers, Civil and Military, in examining and calling to account all V•gabond Strangers and Idle Persons that are travelling to and fro or by the Encouragement and Entertainment 〈◊〉 them by others, get safe into oth•• Provinces and Colonies, to the great Prejudice of his Majesties Service, the weakening of the 〈…〉 Damage and Hurt of all the Inhabitants of this Province, 〈…〉 of Detachments for the necessary Preservation of the Fr••••ers.
For Prevention whereof, for the future, I have therefore thought fit, by and with the Advice and Consent of his Majesties Council, to prohibit all persons whatsoever from harbouring or entertaining any of the said Souldiers, who shall desert, and from giving them any manner of Encouragement or Aid, as Victuals, Cloathing, or Passage in Boat, Sloop or Canow, or otherwise, as they will avoid the Penalty of being detached to serve in their room; or of bringing that insupportable Burthen of Detachments upon the I•habitants of this Province, which will be inevitable.
And all Justices of the Peace, Sheriffs, Bailiffs, Constables, and all other Officers, Civil and Military, are strictly required to Examine and take up all Persons whatsoever, that are str•ngers, who can give no good Account of themselves, and of their business, and to secure them until it be made appear that they are about their lawful business, and are not fugitive Vagabonds and Deserters And to the end that no Person have Disturbance in their lawful Affairs▪ the said Justices, Sheriffs, Bailiffs, Constables, and other Officers, Civil and Military, are also required to grant Tickets unto such Persons whom they know, as are to Travel where they are not known, in writing gratis.
Given at His Majesties Fort in New York,
the 4th Day of November, in the Nineth Year of the Reign of our Soveraign Lord, WILLIAM the Third, by the Grace of God, King of England, Scotland, France and Ireland, Defender of the Faith, &c. Anno{que} Domini 1697.Ben. Fle