Primitive ordination and succession of bishops, deacons, pastors, and teachers in the church of Christ by George Fox.


PRIMITIVE ORDINATION AND SUCCESSION, OF BISHOPS, DEACONS, PA∣STORS and TEACHERS in the CHƲRCH of CHRIST.
By George Fox.
As thou sentest me into the World, even so also send I them into the World; they are not of the World, even as I am not of the World, John 17.Ye shall know that I am in my Father, and you in me, and I in you, John 14.20.I in them, and thou in me, John 17.Go and teach all Nations, I will be with you to the End of the World, Mat. 28.Go ye into all the World, and preach the Gospel, Mark 16.Examine your selves whether you be in the Faith, prove your own selves, know ye not your own selves, how that Jesus Christ is in you, except ye be Reprobates, 2 Cor. 13.5,Printed in the Year 1675.
How Christ ordained his Twelve Apostles, and Seventy Disciples.
How he would be with them to the End of the World, and in them.
What was the Maintenance he ordained for them.
How Christ chose and ordained Pastors, Teachers, Prophets, and Evangelists in the Church.
And the Primitive Ordination of Bishops, and Deacons, and Elders in the Church.
Also who they are that do succeed them in their Or∣dination, Succession, Possession, Doctrine and Practice, in their Preaching, Praying, Singing and Mainte∣nance, and who not.
CONCERNING Ordination AND Succession. About which there is so much Discourse and Work in all Christendom.LEave off all your Busling, and come to Christ and his Apostles, and see how they were or∣dained and sent forth; Christ saith in Mat. 28. Go therefore, and teach all Nations, &c. Now here was the Command of Christ, after he was risen: So these were not to sit down in Benefices, but they were to go and teach all Nations; the Nation of Esau, and the Egyptians, Hams and Tartars, Barba∣rians, Scythians, &c.
These did not reason, What shall I do with my Wife and Children; or how shall I do for a main∣tenance; so as Christ commanded them to go and teach all Nations? here was the Love of God and Christ to all the World: And again Mark 16. Christ said unto his Disciples, Go ye into all the World, and preach the Gospel to every Creature; mark, to every Creature the Gospel of Salvation was to be
preached; here Christ makes no Sects, nor leaves out some Part of the World; but as he tasted Death for every man, and was an Offering for the Sins of the whole World, so he sent his Disciples, which he ordained to preach the Gospel, into all Nations; and he saith, Lo I am with you alwayes, even to the End of the World; and Christ sayes, If you were of the World, the World would love its own, but because you are not of the World, but I have chosen you out of the World, therefore the World hates you: So these were the chosen Disciples of Christ, which he sent forth into the World, Joh. 15. And Christ saith, I have given them the Words which thou gavest me, and they have received them, and have known surely that I came out from thee, they hav