Eisoptrontoy Christianismoy, or, A discourse touching the excellency and usefulness of the Christian religion both in its principles and practices : chiefly design'd by the author for the benefit of his parishioners / by Stephen Kaye ...


〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉; OR A DISCOURSE, Touching the EXCELLENCY and ƲSEFƲLNESS OF THE CHRISTIAN RELIGION, Both in its PRINCIPLES and PRACTICES.
Chiefly design'd by the AƲTHOR, for the Bene∣fit of his PARISHIONERS.
By STEPHEN KAYE, M. A. and Rector of Manton in Lincoln-shire.
John. 3.16. God so loved the World, that he gave his on∣ly begotten Son: that whosoever believeth in him, should not perish, but have everlasting Life.YORK, Printed by Jo. White, for Robert Clarke at the Angel and Bible in low Owse-gate. M.DC.LXXXVI.
Imprimatur.
Ro. Altham, Rmo. P. Dmo. Johan. Archiep. Ebor. à sacris Domesticis.To the Right Worshipful Sir JOHN KAYE, Of Woodsome Baronet, one of His Majestie's Deputy Lieutenants for the West Riding of the County of York.Honoured SIR,'TIs not the apprehension of any Worth or Excellency in this Discourse, (except what its Subject Matter imports) that could tempt me to the Publication of it: Nor am I so vain as to think, that any thing of mine should find such Acceptance in a learned and critical Age, but that the Dread of its severe Censures would rather deter me from appearing in public, then the Opinion of my own
Performances could encourage me there∣unto; save, that I hope by committing my well intended, tho' slender Labours to Your worthy Patronage, I shall be secured at least (however otherwise treated) from open Reprehension or Calumny, by sheltring my self under the tutelar Ʋmbrage of Your great Name. A Name indeed deservedly great; if Your exemplary Piety and Vir∣tue; Your Loyalty to our Gracious So∣veraign, and Integrity to the present Government; if Your strict and im∣partial Administration of Justice; Your charitable Temper in composing Diffe∣rences, to the singular Benefit and Satis∣faction of the neighbouring Country; if Your excellent Pattern of Houshold Government in all the Relations and Circumstances of it; and Your parti∣cular Respect and Deference to all the truly loyal and Orthodox Sons of the Church of England, but the Clergy especially: If all these I say, and Your other innumerable Acts of Charity and
Beneficence may add any thing to Your Character; no Person of Your Rank has more improv'd the Patrimony of Ho∣nour, (deriv'd from Your truly Religi∣ous and Loyal Ancestors) nor advanc'd a Family to an higher Pitch in the ge∣neral Esteem of All. But I would not offend Your Modesty with more particu∣cular Enumerations and Eulogies of Your Merits: And indeed, the Trans∣actions of Your whole Life are so obvi∣ous to a considerable Part of the Nation, that 'twould be very incongruous to in∣large this Dedication with needless Pa∣negyricks. To whom then could I de∣dicate this Discourse with that equal Respect of Choice and Duty, as to Your Self; who, (besides Your Integrity and S