A court of judicature in imitation of Libanius. With new epigrams. By the hand that translated Martial.


A
COURT
OF
JUDICATURE,
In Imitation of
LIBANIUS.
WITH
New Epigrams. By the Hand that translated Martial.
—Servetur ad imum
Qualis ab incepto processerit & sibi constet.
Hor. de Art. Poet.LONDON:
Printed for Henry Bonwicke at the Red Lion in
St. Paul's Church-yard, 1697.
A
Court of Judicature,
In Imitation of
LIBANIUS.To Desertus.VVHEN to Disertus, Muse, I bid thee go,
Why do'st so tim'rous and so back∣ward
show?
Say, he be reading, let not that affright,
Nay more press on him tho thou see'st him write.
If thou attend'st to find his Idle Hour,
A Time to go, will ne'er be in thy Pow'r.
Thou say'st, When thou conceived'st well before
Of any Work, thou think'st it mean and poor
Approaching him. Be't so, thou do'st not err,
Yet let Conceited Ign'rance more deterr,

Than piercing Judgment and a Gen'rous Mind,
Which will be sure, what thou ha'st Good to find,
Altho' thy modest self, art to it blind,
'Tis true, Disertus does himself revere
In what he judges: But how'er severe,
Candor and Knowledge do his Censures steer,
He is not like the vain pretending Crew,
Who criticize on what they never knew,
The Poets, Painters, Statuaries Skill,
Make all take Laws from their bold Tongue and Quill,
Tasso, Bernino, Raph'el, praise and blame,
Pronounee what's in them Good, and what is Lame.
He scorns to act these Vertuosos Part,
Himself's an Artist, as he judges Art,
Wou'd I, my Muse, upon the World impose,
No Way, like this Address, I cou'd have chose,
What's to Disertus sent, when Men behold,
Altho' but Brass, they will presume 'tis Gold,
THE
ARGUMENT.THE People in a certain State, being much
addicted to make themselves away, young
and old of both Sexes, a Law was made, Thar
whosoever lay under any Affliction, should make
their Case known to Judges appointed to heat
them: Who, if they cou'd not prevail to remove
their Troubles, shou'd allow them to take what
Course they pleas'd: But if any, without making
Application to these Judges, laid violent Hands
on themselves, their Bodies shou'd be expos'd
publickly naked, and cast out without Burial.
Upon which many made their Discontents known.
The first Address.A Discontented Poet.AN ancient Bard did thus his Case declare.
My Lords, since first I drew a learned Air,
My self I to the Muses did devote,
Esteem'd a Poet of no Vulgar Note;
My Numbers ravish'd all that did them hear,
And more the Soul affected, than the Ear;
I know not how! The World of late is chang'd,
And from Parnassus ev'ry Heart's estrang'd;
Who my Corrivals were, take to a Trade,
Verse, once their Glory, now their Scorn is made.
To read a Poem I did late attempt,
But from a Friend I met with this Contempt,
" Thy Toys at present, prethee Fool, forbear,
" I'm serious, as thou see'st, and cannot hear;
A Hog he was to sell, a Rick of Hay,
And things Divine to these he made give way.
My Labours all are lost, my Glory's fled,
High time it is, my Lords, th