The publick grievances of the nation adjudged necessary, by the Honourable the House of Commons, to be redressed.


The Publick GRIEVANCES of the NATION, Adjudged Necessary, by the Honourable the House of COMMONS, To be Redressed.1. THat the pretended Power of Dispencing or Suspending of Laws, or the Execution of Laws, by Regal Prero∣gative, without consent of Parliament, is Illegal.2. The Commission for Erecting the late Court of Commis∣sioners for Ecclesiastical Causes, and all other Commissions and Courts of like Nature, are Illegal.3. Levying of Money for, or to the use of the Crown, by pre∣tence of the Prerogative, without grant of Parliament, for longer time, or other manner than the same shall be so grant∣ed, is Illegal.4. It is the Right of the Subjects to Petition the King, & all Commitments & prosecutions for such Petitioning, are Illegal 5. The Acts concerning the Militia are grievous to the subject.6. That the raising or keeping a standing Army within this Kingdom, in time of peace, unlesse it be with consent of Parliament, is against Law.7. 'Tis necessary for the publick safety, that the Subjects which are Protestants should provide and keep Arms for their common Defence, and that the Arms which have been seiz'd and taken from them, be restored.8. The Right and Freedom of Electing Members of the House of Commons, and the Right and priviledges of Par∣liament and members of Parliament, as well in the Inter∣vals as during their sitting, be preserved.9. That Parliaments ought to sit frequently, and that their frequent sitting be secured.10. No interruption of any session of Parliament, till the Af∣fajrs which are necessary to be dispatched at that time be deter∣mined.11. The too long continuance of the same Parliament to be prevented.12. No pardon to be pleadable to an Impeachment in Par∣liament.13. Cities, Vniversities, Towns Corporate, Boroughs and Plantations to be secured against Quo-Warranto's, Surrenders, and Mandats, and Restor'd to their ancient Rights.14. None of the Royal Family to marry a Papist.15. Every King & Queen of the Realm at the time of the entring into the Exercise of their regal Authority, to take an oath for the maintaining the Protestant Religion, & the Laws and Liber∣ties of this Nation, & that the Coronation Oath be reviewed.16. Effectual provision to be made for the Liberty of the Prote∣stants in the exercise of their Religion, & for the uniting all Pro∣testants in the matter of publick Worship as far as may be.17. Constructions upon the Statutes of Treason, and Try∣als, and Proceedings, and Writs of Error in Cases of Trea∣son, to be Regulated.18. Iudges Commissions to be made Quam dieu se bene gesse∣rint, and their Salleries to be ascertained and established to be paid out of the publick Revenue only, and not to be removed or suspended from Execution of their Office, but by due course of Law.19. The requiring excessive Bail of persons committed in criminal cases, and imposing excessive Fines and illegal pu∣nis