An address to the magistrates, clergy, and learned gentlemen of the city of Dublin Or, A rational and expeditious method of teaching the English, Latin and Greek tongues, discovered.


AN ADDRESS TO THE Magistrates, Clergy, and Learned Gentlemen Of the CITY of DUBLIN. OR, A Rational and Expeditious Method Of TEACHING the ENGLISH, LATIN AND GREEK TONGUES, Discovered.
DUBLIN: Printed by Joseph Ray, and are to be Sold at his Shop in Skin∣ner Row, over-against the Tholsel. 1698.
An ADDRESS to the Magistrates, Clergie, and Learned Gentlemen of the City of DUBLIN, &c.GENTLEMEN,I Published lately an Advertisement of an English, Latin and Greek School; and therein I undertake, upon very Reason∣able Terms, to teach the English, Latin and Greek Tongues, after a more Easie, Expeditious and Rational Method, than has been hitherto practised; but finding that it does not succeed ac∣cording to my Expectation, I thought fit to discover to the World, that I am Able to Perform, what I have therein Underta∣ken: And since I cannot be so happy as to reap some Benefit by what I have with many years Toil and Travel found out, let me at least have the Satisfaction of Discovering it to my Native Coun∣trey; some more Ingenious Person may perhaps Improve it to greater Advantage for the Publick Good.
My Method of Teaching the Tongues, is this. 1. I Teach my Scholars the English Tongue Grammatically, according to the English Grammar which I Printed at London in 1692. and do instil all Grammatical Rules, Terms and Notions into Boys in their Mother Tongue, which they comprehend the better, because they are deliver'd in a Known Tongue. When Boys understand the Eng∣lish Parts of Speech, their Numbers, Cases, Articles, Genders and Declensions; the Conjugations, their Moods, Tenses and Persons; the Concords and Regimens in Syntax; the Accents, Names of Verses, and Measures in Prosody; the most Tedious and Difficult part of Grammar is over, before ever they enter in∣to Latin. Then I teach them to make English Theams and Ver∣s••, and put some English Authors of the Purest Stile, into their hands. A Boy thus qualify'd, is fit for learning any Foreign Tongue, and not till then. The forming of Boys at the Gram∣mar-School, either makes or marrs them for ever. The first Impres∣sionsstick fastest, and therefore ought to be made with the great∣est Skill.
2. When I enter a Boy into Latin or Greek, I do not Teach him the General Rules of Grammar over again, but make those Rules that are Peculiar to each Tongue, as Exceptions to the Eng∣lish Grammatical Rules. The Constitution of all Tongues, as to the General Rules of Grammar, are the same, and do only dif∣fer in a few things, viz. the English and Latin Tongues have Two Numbers; the Greek, Three; the English and Latin have Six Ca∣ses, the Greek but Five; the English Tongue hath but One Declen∣sion, the Latin Five, and the Greek Ten; the English hath but Two Conjugations, the Latin Four, and the Greek Thirteen, &c. Now to make Three compleat