The true light shining in darkness and dispelling the mists of errour arising from the darkness of man's heart, &c. promoted by the prince of darkness against the truth of God; in the matter of our justification: shewing, that by the deeds of the law, or mans own righteousness, no flesh can or shall be justified in the sight of God. The first part. By Tho. Taylor, the meanest and unworthiest of the servants and ministers of Jesus Christ; and now pastor to a small congregational church in Cambridge.


THE True Light Shining in Darkness, And dispelling the Mists of Errour arising from the Darkness of Man's heart, &c. promoted by the Prince of Darkness against the Truth of God; in the matter of our JUSTIFICATION: Shewing, That by the deeds of the Law, or Man's own Righ∣teous•ess, no flesh can, or shall be justified in the sight of God.
The First Part.
By THO. TAYLOR, the meanest and unwor∣thiest of the Servants and Ministers of Jesus Christ; and now Pastor to a small Congrega∣tional Church in Cambridge.
Rom. 1.21, 22.Because that when they knew God, they glorified him not as God, neither were thank∣ful, but became vain in their imaginations, and their foolish heart was darkned; professing themselves to be wise, they became fools.
LONDON, Printed for Nath. Crouch at the Bell in the Poultrey near Cheapside. 1693.
TO THE READERWHoever thou art, that Readest this small Treatise upon so great a Subject as the matter of mans Justification, before God know that thou art concerned to consider seriously and weigh well in thy mind what is here written, without prejudice; forasmuch as thou art the man, to whom this word is sent, either for the informing and undeceiving thee in this matter, if thou be'st deceived. Or for the confirming thee in the truth and strength∣ning thy Faith in Christ. If thou be'st al∣ready by the teachings of Gods holy Spirit, one that knowest him that is true, and ar• in him that is true even in his Son Jesus Christ, 1 Joh. 5.20. And we know the Son of God is come, and hath given us an understanding that we may know him that is true: and we are in him that is true, even in his Son Jesus Christ. This is the true God, and eternal Life. And it is im∣mediately added: Little Children, keep your selves from Idols. And though there be many Idols in mans heart; yet this is one

of the greatest, and most dangerous, and hardest to be departed from; a mans own righ∣teousness, if it be, but as it were, by the works of the Law: And as we know that an Idol is nothing but the Image and Likeness of that which it is not: So verily; this, (mans own righteousness) is nothing; a meer Imaginati∣on of Mans own heart exalted against God: which is not, nor cannot be in Gods sight, and so it should be in thine: Abominable to thee, and abhorred by thee, as it is to him, Job 15.14, 15, 16. What is man, that he should be clean? And he which is born of a Woman, that he should be righteous? Be∣hold, he putteh no trust in his Saints; yea, the heavens are not clean i