Justice justified; or The judges commission opened: in two assize sermons, preached before the judges of assize. The first at Chard, on Prov. 14.34. March 12. the other at Tauton, on Rom. 13.4. Aug.3. 1657. By James Strong, Master of Arts, and minister of the Gospel at Illmister in Sommerset.


JUSTICE JUSTIFIED; OR THE Judges Commission Opened: IN TWO ASSIZE SERMONS, Preached before the JUDGES of ASSIZE. The first at Chard, on Prov. 14. 34. March 12. the other at Taunton, on Rom. 13. 4. Aug. 3. 1657.
By James Strong, Master of Arts, and Minister of the Gospel at Illmister in SOMMERSET.
Justitia immota res publica floret, illa sublata, flaccesset ac deficit. Casper Sibelius. Tom. 3. page 389.And I will restore thy Judges as at first; and thy Councellors as at the beginning; afterward shalt thou be called a City of Righ∣teousnesse, and a faithful City,
Isa. 1. 26.LONDON, Printed for John Stafford, and are to be sold at his house, neer the George, at FLEET-BRIDGE, 1658.
To the Right Honourable Robert Nicholas, one of the Barons of the Exchequer, and Richard Newdigate, one of the Justices of the Ʋpper Bench, Judges of the Western Circuit: As al∣so to the Right Worshipful William Hill∣yard, Esq High-Sheriff of the County of So∣merset; together with the Gentlemen of the Grand Inquest, and others, at whose request these Sermons were made publike.My Lords and Gentlemen;TWas a sad presage of Israels ruine, when the Lord in anger threatened to break these two Staves of his beauty and bonds: if Religion be the one of these two Staves, the Law shall be the other; these are semper gemella nun∣quam singula in foetu, two Twins, mercies that live and die together, Israel at once lost them both, Hos. 3. 4. The Children of Israel shall be many dayes without a King, & without a Prince, & without an offering, and without an Ephod, &c. corruption is the mother of confusion, Dan and Bethel, the place of Judgement, and the house of God, had been corrupted together, and therefore 'twas just they should be destroyed together: wickednesse had usurped the seat

of Justice at Dan, and Bethel, the house of God, was become a Bethanes, the house of lies. What violent adventures have been made by many of this Nations own degenerate Sons to break the staffe of beanty, I need not tell you; I fear the next generation will scarce live to see Religion healed of some of these scars and wounds she hath received in our late unhappy wars, of which, oh may she not complain in the Prophets words, that she hath been wounded in the house of her friends: The quarrel begun with Religion, but ended against policy: Those that are burthened by the Gospel, can live without the Law; Sine Fide, sine Rege, sine Lege. The staff of bonds hath of late had its turn, and had not both been held in the hand of a strong God, sure the issue ere this had been confu∣sion.
My Lords, That both Justice and Religion finds yet the countenance of so egregious Patrons as your selves, is a Val∣ley of Achor, a door of