Newes of the present miseries of Rushia occasioned by the late warre in that countrey. Commenced betweene Sigimond now King of Poland. Charles late King of Swethland. Demetrius, the last of the name, Emperour of Rushia. Together with the memorable occurrences of our owne nationall forces, English, and Scottes, vnder the pay of the now King of Swethland.



NEWES OF the present Miseries of Rushia: Occasioned By the late Warre in that Countrey.
Commenced
Betweene
Sigismond now King of Poland.Charles late King of Swethland.Demetrius, the last of that Name, Empe∣rour of Rushia.
Together with the Memorable occurrences of our owne Nationall Forces, English, and Scottes, vnder the Pay of the now King of Swethland.
LONDON Printed for Iohn Bache, and are to be sold at his shop on the backe-side of the Royall Exchange. 1614.

TO THE RIGHT Honorable sir Robert Carre, Knight, Viscont Rochester, Earle of Somerset, Knight of the most Noble Order of the Garter, and one of his Maiesties most honorable priuy Counsell.IF in the great affairs of the king∣dome, wherein (vnder our ex∣cellent Head) your Lordship is worthily employed as a princi∣pall member, there be any lea∣sure left from the businesse of your high place, It may then please your Lordship to cast a fauourable aspect vp∣on the humble Labours of such whom Fortune, and their meane deseruings keepes vnder in the obscure ranke of Pouerty. Amongst whom, I haue presumed to write this little Booke, as a Discoursiue Treatise vpon the Miseries of Russia, occasioned by the late forreine and intestine warre in that Country, which I haue aduentured to present vnto your Honours view (if a pretious eie may looke vpon a woorthlesse obiect) and it is not the meanest vertue, to respect the poorest fortune: for take away goodnesse from great men: to whom shall the poore flee for refuge? I haue therefore made bolde to shrowd it vnder the

Patronage of your Honour, which I wish may still transcend, vntill with your high woorth it hold cor∣respondencie. And that those holy Nuptiallbands, whereby you are now honourably lincked into the Noble House of Norfolke, euen by the Soueraigne appointment of the most high God, beyond the sub∣ordinate power of Destiny, may till death proue in∣dissoluble, more hard to be vntwined, then that Gor∣dious knotte, wherein lay infoulded the fate of Asia, That you may liue long most happy, as you are now most worthy, both in your high Stile, State, Place, Fortune, and a Kings fauour.
Your Honors in all humble duty,
HENRY BRERETON.



The Warre and Miseries of Rushia.
CHAP. 1.Demetrius the last of that name, after the death of his father Basilius, succeeds him in the Empire, he distrusteth his owne people, and many of his Nobility, and striues to strengthen his estate by mariage with a yong Lady neere in bloud to Sigismond king of Poland.
OF all the accidents that I haue read or heard of in the oppression of any State or Kingnome whatsoeuer, either for the present or precedent ages, there hath no