A new-years result, in favour of the poore; as also in the behalf of all tradesmen, necessitous persons, and such others, as desire the encrease of traffique; who minde the exterpation of intollerable usury, and the anihilating of the pernitious costoms of forfeitures.:  Together with that which may be justly expected from all men of estates on the like case, who cannot be ignorant that such as endeavor not to promote the publique good, are no better than brutes with hoofs and hornes. All which is discust by way of conference between Mean-well and Experience. / By Sr. Balthazar Gerbier, Knight.



A NEW-YEARS RESVLT, In favour of the POORE; As also in the behalf of all Trades∣men, Necessitous Persons, and such others, as desire the encrease of Traffique; who minde the Exterpation of Intollerable Usury, and the anihilating of the per∣nitious costoms of Forfeitures.
Together with that which may be justly expected from all men of Estates on the like Case, who cannot be ignorant that such as endeavor not to promote the Publique good, are no better then Brutes with Hoofs and Hornes.
All which is discust by way of Conference between Mean-well and Experience.
BY Sr. Balthazar Gerbier, Knight.
LONDON, Printed by T. M. 1652.







A New-Years Result, In favour of the POORE and other Necessitous Persons, &c.
By way of Conference, between Mean-well and Ex∣perience.
Mean-well,WHen our Saviour told his Disciples, That they should alwayes have the poor amongst them, they were like∣wise recommended to be provided for; and therefore the admini∣string unto them of a timely, and a possible relief, is no lesse then a duty, That such persons who have tongues should not only speak comfortable words un∣to them; but also that such as have wealth, should be assisting of them; and finally, that such as have ex∣perience should not onely think upon expedients in behalf of the Poor, reflecting on the saying, Foenera∣tur Domino qui miseretur pauperis: but also endea∣vour to bring such results to a head, as may be effe∣ctuall, and beneficiall unto them; when as alas! the poverty of many is so excessive, as that it works the same effects on them, which some diseases do on per∣sons, who at last cannot so much as tell what they are sick off? nor, can they call for a Physitian: and as this excesse of want doth at last strike up into their brains, so it works on their senses, making them

rave and exclaime; yea, sometimes accuse every thing they see, taste, feel and the like; nay, they even misconsture every word which is spoken unto them by their best friends.
Now when as distractions happen in a Country, and amidst a Nation; the Poor and such like necessitous persons are usually the first who suffer by the same; And therefore all well meaning persons, are so much the more bound to apply themselves, to think upon such favourable expedients, as might be effectuall to∣wards the relieving of the poore and needy. To speak for them, to consult with what experience hath laid up in sto