A brief narrative of the progress of the Gospel amongst the Indians in New-England, in the year 1670 given in by the Reverend Mr. John Elliot, minister of the gospel there, in a letter by him directed to the right worshipfull the commissioners under His Majesties Great-Seal for propagation of the gospel amongst the poor blind natives in those United Colonies.


A BRIEF NARRATIVE OF THE Progress of the Gospel amongst the Indians in New-England, in the Year 1670.
Given in By the Reverend Mr. JOHN ELLIOT, Minister of the Gospel there,
In a LETTER by him directed to the Right Worshipfull the COM∣MISSIONERS under his Majesties Great-Seal for Propagation of the Gospel amongst the poor blind Na∣tives in those United Colonies.
LONDON.
Printed for Iohn Allen, formerly living in Little-Britain at the Rising-Sun, and now in Wentworth street 〈◊〉 Lane, 1671.
To the Right Worshipful the Commissioners under his Majesties Great-Seal, for Propagation of the Gospel amongst the poor blind Indians in New-England.Right Worshipful and Christian Gentlemen,THat brief Tract of the present state of the Indian-Work in my hand, which I did the last year on the sudden present you with when you call'd for such a thing; That falling short of its end, and you calling for a renewal thereof, with opportu∣nity of more time, I shall begin with our last great motion in that Work done this Summer, because that will lead me to begin with the state of the Indians under the hands of my Brethren Mr. Mahew and Mr. Bourn.
Upon the 17th day of the 6th month 1670, there was a Meeting at Mak•epog near Sandwich in Plimouth-Pattent, to gather a Church a∣mong the Indians: There were present six of the Magistrates, and ma∣ny Elders, (all of them Messengers of the Churches within that Juris∣diction) in whose presence, in a day of Fasting and Prayer, they ma∣king confession of the Truth and Grace of Jesus Christ, did in that so∣lemn Assembly enter into Covenant, to walk together in the Faith and Order of the Gospel; and were accepted and declared to be a Church of Jesus Christ. These Indians being of kin to our Massachuset-Indi∣ans who first prayed unto God, conversed with them, and received a∣mongst them the light and love of the Truth; they desired me to write to Mr. Leveredge to teach them: He accepted the Motion, and per∣formed the Work with good success; but afterwards he left that place, and went to Long-Island, and there a godly Brother, named Richard Bourne (who purposed to remove with Mr. Leveredge, but hindred by Divine Providence) undertook the teaching of those Indi∣ans, and hath continued in the work with good success to this day; him we ordained Pastor; and one of the Indians, named Iude, should have been ordained Ruling-Elder, but being sick at that time, advice was given that he should be ordained with the first opportunity, as also a Deacon to manage the present Sabbath day Collections, and other

parts of that Office in their season. The same day also were they, and such of their