A godlie sermon of repentaunce and amendment of life, togeather with the acompt which we must render at the day of iudgement Preached at the Rolles Church in London the second of Maye, and taken out of the fifth chapter of Saint Paule his Epistle to the Corinthians.


A godlie Ser∣mon
of repentaunce and a∣mendment
of life, togeather with the ac∣compt
which we must render at the
day of iudgement. Preached at the Rolles Church in London
the second of Maye, and taken out of
the fifth Chapter of Saint Paule
his Epistle to the Cor∣rinthians.
Cor. 5. vers. 10.We must all appeare before the iudge¦ment
seat of Christe, that euery man
maye receiue the thinges, which are
done in his bodye, according to that
which he hath done, whether it bee
good or euill.
AT LONDON
Printed by Thomas Purfoote, and are to be
sold at his shop, right ouer against
S. Sepulchers Church.
1585.
A Sermon preached at
the Rolles Church in London,
the 2. of Maye beeing Sondaye, ta∣ken
out of the 5. Chapter of S.
Paule his second Epistle to the
Corinthians: verse 10.The Text.We must all appeare before the iudge∣ment
seat of Christe, that euery man
maye receiue the thinges, which are
done in his bodye, according to that
which he hath done, whether it bee
good or euill.THe holye Apostle, at such
time as he wrote this E∣pistle
to the Corinthians,
beeing persecuted for the
testimonye of his consci∣ence,
and the profession of the glorious
Gospell of Iesus Christe, protesteth so∣lempnely,
that the troubles, which bee
suffered in his bodye did not onelye not
discourage him, nor cause him to faint,

but eyther That they did adde zealo and
〈…〉, causing him to continue
constaune in his calling, and to account
those afflitions but tuomentary & light
in respect of that most excellent and eter¦nall
weight of glorye, wherewith all in
the end he knew he shoulde be crowned,
the earnest desire whereof caused him to
sigh and grone in spirite, that he might
shortly be losed out of his body, and cloa∣thed
with his house, which the Lord had
prepared for him in heauen, not that be
thought hee coulde preuent the time,
which the Lord in his secret counsel had
already determined. For he knew that
the Dayes of man surely are determined,and that his number of monethes are
knowne of God, who hath appoynted
him his boundes,which can not goe
beyonde, but we know (sayth he) that
if our earthly house of that tabernacle
bee destroyed, wee haue a buildinge
giuen of GOD, that is, a house not
made with handes, but eternall in the
heauens, beeing absent from the Lord,
whileste we are at hoame in this bo∣dy.
Howbeit whether it be the Lord his

good wil and pleasure, that we shall stil
dwell at home in the bodye, or remooue
from home out of this bodye and dwell
wich him, we endeuour our selues,
that we may be found acceptable in his
sight at all times, and in all places.
Whereof he giueth this reason, For we
must all appeare, &c. Exhorting al men
both by his example and doctrine, in
life to meditate of death, in prosperiti