An answer to George Keith's Narrative of his proceedings at Turners-Hall, on the 11th of the month called June, 1696 wherein his charges against divers of the people called Quakers (both in that, and in another book of his, called, Gross error & hypocrosie detected) are fairly considered, examined, and refuted / by Thomas Ellwood.


ANSWER TO George Keith's NARRATIVE OF HIS Proceedings at Turners-Hall, On the 11th of the Month called Iune, 1696.
WHEREIN His CHARGES against divers of the People called QUAKERS (Both in that, and in another Book of his, CALLED, Gross Error & Hypocrisie Detected) Are fairly Considered, Examined, and Refuted.
By THOMAS ELLWOOD.
London: Printed and Sold by T. Sowle near, the Meeting-House in White-Hart-Court in Gracious-street 1696.
AN ANSVVER TO George Keith's NARRATIVE, &c.IT is not surely, without good Reason, that the Church of Christ, here on Earth, is called the Church Militant: For (besides the inward and spiritual Enemies, which her several Members have to encounter with, in their Pilgrimage through this trou∣blesome World) such hath been, and is, her Lot and Portion, that she hath rarely been free from outward Enemies of one kind or other; her great Adversa∣ry, Satan, continually raising up some evil Instruments or other, to fall upon her, all aiming at her Ruine, though after divers Ways and Manners. Sometimes the Civil Powers, under which she hath lived, have been stirred up to proclaim as it were, open War against her; and to inflict severe and heavy Penalties upon her, for her faithful adherence to her Lord and Master, Christ Jesus. When, through Faith and Patience, she hath overcome, and the Wrath and Fury of Men hath been asswaged, so that she hath had some respit from those outward Sufferings: Then hath her old Adversary

(the common Enemy of Mankind) bestirr'd himself in another way, to raise up Persecution against her of ano∣ther kind, by instigating some or other (either such as were always avowed Enemies to her, or such as for some time appeared to be of her, but by the sweep of his Tail had been struck off from her) to speak or write against her, falsly to accuse her, and load her with the foulest Reproaches, and most infamous Slanders and Scandals; that by so misrepresenting her, they might hinder others from joyning to, or favouring her, and stir up the Civil Magistrate again, to persecute her afresh. This hath been the Lot, this the Condition of the lit∣tle Flock of Christ, in former Ages, as Ecclesiastical Histo∣ries declare. As for the present Age, and with respect to the People called Quakers (whom God by an Invi∣sible Arm of Power hath raised up, and held up, and made a peculiar People to himself) Experience gives sufficient Proof, the matter being yet fresh in Memo∣ry. For (not to look back so far as that which was called the Commonwealth's Time, wherein many of the leading Men, in most Professions, put forth their ut∣most Strength against us, both in Preaching and Print∣ing, raising those