Several captious queries concerning the English Reformation first proposed by Dean Manby (an Irish convert) in Latin, and afterwards by T.W. in English, briefly and fully answered by Dr. Clagett.


Imprimatur,
Liber cui Titulus, Several Captious Queries, &c. Guil. Needham.May 10. 1688.Several Captious QUERIES Concerning the English Reformation, First Proposed By Dean Manby (an Irish Convert) in Latin, And afterwards by T.W. in English; Briefly and Fully ANSWER'D
By the late Reverend and Learned Dr. CLAGETT, Preacher to the Honourable Society of Grays-Inn, and Chaplain in Ordinary to His Majesty.
LONDON, Printed by H. Clark, for James Adamson, at the Angel and Crown in St. Paul's Church-Yard, MDCLXXXVIII.
AN ANSWER TO T.W's. QUERIES, [Sect. 1] Quer.THe Church of England is either the whole Catholick Church, or a Member thereof; If a Member only, Name me that Church or Congregation, under the Sun, whose Sacraments and Liturgy she embraces, unless she have cut her self off form the rest of the Body.
Answ. If the Church of Rome were spread over the Face of the whole Earth, excepting here in England, and nothing would serve, but we or they must be the Catholick Church, Reason would re∣quire that the Church of England should be so, which is the better, and not the Church of Rome, which would be but the bigger Church. But we pretend not to be the Catholick Church, because we neither need, nor ought to boast beyond Truth. The Sacraments we embrace are received by All Christian Churches in the World, and no Church ought to receive any more. We embrace the Li∣turgies of the other Reformed Churches, and use our own, as they use their own, and embrace ours. We
embrace all that honest Chistians can embrace in the Liturgies of the Ʋnreformed, and we reject the rest. We have not cut our selves off from the rest of the Body, but the Church of Rome has done so, because she is resolved to be All or Nothing.
 [Sect. 2] Quer.Does she allow the Sacraments of Luthe∣rans or Calvinists?
Answ. She allows and administers the same Sa∣craments, that Lutherans and Calvinists do, not because they are Sacraments celebrated by them, or by any others; but because they are Sacraments instituted by Christ.
 [Sect. 3] Quer.From whence was Cranmer, that first Pa∣triarch, or Reformer of the Church of England sent? Who gave him Authority to preach his Reformed Gospel? Was it just or honest for him to rise up against the Church of Rome by vertue of a Commission from her received? And if so, I pray inform me, whether a Bishop or Minister fallen from the Church of England, may not also take upon him to Preach against the Church of England, by pretence of the Orders received from her hands?
Answ. Cranmer was immediately sent by the Bi∣shops that Ordained and Consecrated him, Origi∣nally by Christ, who left that Power in the Church, by which they did so: So far therefore as he was the First Reformer of the Church of England, he did what became his Mission, better than if he had gone on to