A pæan triumphall Composed for the Societie of the Goldsmiths of London: congratulating his Highnes magnificent entring the citie. To the Maiestie of the King. / By Michael Drayton.


A PAEAN TR•VMPHALL. COMPOSED FOR THE SOCIETIE O• the Goldsmiths of London: congratulating his High∣nes magnificent entring the Citie.
To the Maiestie of the King.
By MICHAEL DRAYTON.
Dicite io paean, io bis dicite paean.
LONDON
Printed for IOHN FLASKET, and are to be sold at his shop
Pauls Churchyard at the signe of the black Beare. 1604.
A Paean Triumphall.TO the vaste skies whilst shoutes and cries rebound,
And buildings eccho with reuerberate sound,
Strugling to thrust out of the peopled throng,
Panting for breath flies our elaborate song.
That time the day brake from her wonted guise,
The Sunne in haste before his houre did rise,
And draue the fleet-foote posting houres so fast,
Which were afeard young Phaeton that was cast
From his Siers Chariot, reobtain'd the Carre,
To set the neighboring Elements at warre.
But whilst sweete Zephyre gently spreads his wings,
Curles the sleeke bosomes of th'enamoured springs.
With Baulmie spices so perfumes each place,
Breathing such odors in the mornings face,
That the day seem'd all former daies to scorne,
And (to compare it) euer should be borne.
Saturne whose grim face clad in Icie haire,
Thrust his bleake visage through the Northerne aire,
That long had low'rd vpon the drouping spring,
With Frosts, Hailes, Snowes and Tempests minacing,
Suddenly calm'd, and his harsh rage resignes
To smooth Fauonius and milde Libick windes,
Whil'st Temples stand euen trembling as afeard,
To see proud Pageants on their Arches reard
Aboue their Turrets, whilest the concourse meete,
Like boysterous tides in euery publike streete.
Windowes of eyes, the houses scorn'd their glasse,
On euery side their Maiesties should passe:
Roomes with rich beauties furnished about,
Arras but serues to hang the walles without.
Who lou'd in works of ancient times to prie,
Hangings compleate with curious Imagrie,
Glutting his eyes here liuely might behold,
Faces whose numbers figures neuer told,
Walling the houses, in whose seuerall eyes
Ioye shewes it selfe in more varieties,
Then be their mindes, the obiects that they see,
Which are as various as their features bee.
The hie-reard spires shake with the peoples crie,
Bending their tops seeme wondring to espie
Streets pau'd with heads, for such the numbers bee,
The loftiest Tower no ground at all can see.
Banners, Flags, Streamers, in such numbers borne,
And stood so thick that one might soone haue sworne,
Nature of late some noueltie had brought,
Groaues leau'd with silke in curious manner wrought,
Bearing such fruite th' Atlantides did keepe,
By that fierce Dragon that did neuer sleepe.
When now approched glorious Maiestie,
Vnder a gold-wrought sumptuous Canopie.
Before him went his goodly glittering traine,
Which though as late wash'd in a golden raine.
All so embraudered that to those behold,
Horses as men, s