William Michel unmasqued, or, The staggering instability of the pretended stable Christian discovered his omissions observed, and weakness unvailed : in his late faint and feeble animadversions by way of reply to a book intituled Truth cleared of calumnies : wherein the integrity of the Quakers doctrine is the second time justified and cleared from the reiterate, clamorous but causeless calumnies of this cavilling cetechist [sic] / by Robert Barclay.



William Michel UNMASQUED:
OR, The Staggering Instability of the pretended Stable Christian Discovered, his Omissions obser∣ved, and weakness unvailed.
In his late faint and feeble Animadversions by way of Reply to a Book Intituled TRUTH cleared of CALUMNIES.
Wherein The Integrity of the Quakers Doctrine is the second time Justified, and Cleared from the Reiterate, Clamorous but Causeless Calumnies of this Cavilling Cetechist.
By ROBERT BARCLAY.
John 16. 2. They will put you out of their Synagogues, yea, the time com∣eth, that whosoever killeth you, will think he doth God good service.
1 John 4. 4. Ye are of God little Children, because greater is he that is in you, than he that is in the World.
3 John 10. Wherefore if I come, I will remember his deeds (which he doth) prating against us with malitious words.
Printed in the Year, 1672.
The Preface TO THE READER.READER,HAving seriously perused W. M. his late Animadversions upon my Book, I find my Judgement of it, though a party concern∣ed, to jump with that which is the sence of several juditious persons, who neither own nor walk in that Profession I am in; and therefore can the less he suspected of partiallity, viz: that they coutain no∣thing of a solid or satisfactory reply; for though he seemes to take notice of all the particulars mentioned, yet he omits in many, more then the half of what is said by me concerning them, and against that which he doth mention in my name, his most frequent Argu∣ments

are without any Proof; having no other bottom but his owne Judgement, thoughts and conjectures, whereby it seemes, forgetting or mistaking his work, he playes the Catechist rather then the Disputant. This put me to some stand, whether it was fit to give him any Reply; though truly such as will be at the paines to compare his with my last, will need little further, yet knowing how many are apt to take things upon trust, and to receive Misrepresentations concerning us, who are a People so generally Reproached, I found it expedient to Write this succinct Reply, which may lead the Reader to a narrow observation of the invalidity of W. M. his work against us, and may present in short his most Obvious Omissions, his most manifest Contradictions, unvail his Disinge∣nuity, lay open his Weakness, and shew his Unsta∣billity, especially so far as he has deserved; most of these Arguments he used in his Dialogue, as not be∣ing able further to mantaine them, and discover how faintly such new ones as he, doth now bring forth, millitate aginst us. Let it not startle