Reasons of a fast, appoynted by the Commission of the General assemblie to bee kept through all the kirks of this kingdom, on the Lords day; December 22, 1650.


REASONS OF A FAST, Appoynted by the Commission of the Generall Assemblie: To bee kept through all the Kirks of this Kingdom, on the LORDS DAY; December 22. 1650.THe Commission of the Generall Assemblie, seriously considering, That how-so-ever this Land lyeth under the Guiltiness of many-fold Provoca∣tions of al sorts, against the Cō∣mandemēts of the Law of GOD, abounding, in all Rancks & Con∣ditions of People: Yet, that the despysing and refusing of the Gospell, and of the Rich Free Grace of GOD in CHRIST held foorth therein, is the Great Na∣tional Sinne of this Kirk and Kingdom, against which the LORD is most evidently and remarkeably, plea∣ding a Contraversie in His present judgements vpon the Land: And, that this is the very Fountayn and Cause of so great abounding of all other sinnes. Con∣sidering,

also, that this Sinne having been often men∣tioned and held foorth amongst the Causes of former Fasts, hath been little, or no wayes at all, layd to heart. Yea, nor well understood what it meaneth by the most part of People. And, therefore, having appoyn∣ted a Fast and Humiliation to bee kept especially for this Sinne, on the LORDS Day, December xxij. 1650, throughout all the Congregations of this Kirk, it is thought fit, to the effect, That all may haue the more clear and distinct apprehension of the foresayd Sinne, and bee helped the better, to discern their guil∣tiness therein; To hold foorth unto People, the Mayn Branches thereof, in this Paper which is desyred to bee read in all Congregations.
Sinnes relating to the Gospell-Ordinances.FIrst: To the WORD. Neglecting to come and attend on the Preaching of the Word, both on the LORDS Day, and on week dayes, in these places where such Exercises, are on these dayes.
2 Not comming to the Preaching of the Word, for the right end, viz to fynd communion with Christ, and a taste of His goodnes and excellencie, & to be built vp in the most holy fayth: but eyther out of custome or to eschew censures, or to satisfy & hold off the challēges of a naturall conscience; or some other by-respect. And not preparing the heart befor hand in secret, to come with Godly fear and reverence, humility, spiritual hun∣gring and thirsting after the Kingdom of God, and the Righteousnes thereof, and desyring as new born babes the sincere milk of the Word, to grow thereby,
3 That when People are at the preaching of the word, besyds great carelesnes, overlines sleeping, wandring of the heart, & in advertencie to what is preached; the Word is not heard as an Ordināce and meane appoyn∣ted of God to work vpon, and carry in grace and com∣fort vnto the heart, but is only reguarded as other dis∣courses proceeding from mens ability and parts, and is accordingly esteemed by the most part, or at most is on∣ly made vse of, as a mean of informing the judgement.
4 That in the