Church reformation, tenderly handled in fovre sermons, preached at the weekly lecture in the parish church of Great Yarmouth. / By John Brinsley.


CHURCH REFORMATION, Tenderly handled IN FOVRE SERMONS, Preached at the weekly Lecture in the Parish Church of Great Yarmouth.
By John Brinsley.
MAT. 3. 12.Whose fanne is in his hand, and he will throughly purge his Floore.
IT is the first day of Iune, Anno Domini, 1643.Ordered by the Committee of the House of Commons in PARLIAMENT concerning Printing, That this Booke Intituled (Church-Re∣formation) be printed.
 JOHN WHITE.LONDON, Printed by G. M. for Iohn Burroughes, at the Signe of the Golden-Dragon, neare the Inner-Temple Gate in Fleet-street, M. DC. XLIII.
TO ALL THE SONNES OF PEACE In the Church of ENGLAND, Especially those in the Towne of Great Yarmouth, Grace and Peace.WHen I entred upon the se∣venth Verse of this Chap∣ter, (for there I first brake ground) I cannot say, that it was my pur∣pose to have followed the Baptist to the end of his Sermon. But Pro∣vidence leading mee along, it hath now brought me to the Borders, the middle clause of the l•• Verse of it▪ Which when I fell in hand with, I can say, that it was farre from my thoughts to make my Meditations thereon any further publick, then as the Pul∣pit

rendered them. But finding the Subject seasonable for the times, I have beene indu∣ced to comply with the desires of some▪ and approbations of others, in sending them a∣broad, as Noah once did his Dove out of the Arke, when the Earth was covered with waters. What entertainement they shall meete with, or what returne they will make, as I know not, so neither am I overthought∣full. It is enough for me, that I have en∣deavoured herein to please God and not men, otherwise then in him, and for him. My de∣sires (I confesse) have beene, and are, that this my service, (if possible) might be acceptable to all. However, being a Service for Ieru∣salem▪ I doubt not but it shall be so to you, and all those who pray for the peace thereof; whose I am and ever shall be
Onely in the Lord
John Brinsley.CHVRCH REFORMATION. THE I. SERMON: April 12. 1643▪Matth. 3. 12.And he will throughly purge his Floore.]
THe whole verse is a plaine and familiar, but elegant Allegory, under which the Baptist set∣teth forth unto us the Sove∣raign Authority of Iesus Christ, with the Exercise of that Au∣thority. His Authority, in the first words. Whose fanne is in his hand. The Exercise of that Authoritie in the sequell of the verse; which is set forth unto us, first, more Generally, over his whole Church; He will throughly purge his Floore. Then more Particularly, towards his Elect▪ by way of mercie, He will gather his wheat into his Garner. Towards Repro∣bates and Ʋnbeleevers, by way of Judgement. Hee will burn up the Chaffe, &c.
It is the second of these that my eye is upon at the present, (having alreadie insisted upon the former) viz. the Exercise of Christs Soveraigne Authoritie in generall,over and upon his whole Church: