A sermon at a solemn meeting of the natives of the city and county of Worcester, in the church of St. Mary le Bow, June 24, 1680 by Adam Littleton ...


A SERMON AT A Solemn MEETING OF The Natives OF THE CITY and COUNTY OF Worcester, IN The Church of St. Mary le Bow, Iune 24. 1680. By Adam Littleton, D. D. Chaplain in Or∣dinary to his Majesty.
LONDON: Printed for William Birch, and are to be sold by Iohn Crump at the three Bibles in St. Paul's Church-yard. 1680.
TO MY WORTHY FRIENDS AND COUNTRY-MEN,
Mr. Iohn Foley,Capt. Tho. Hammond,Mr. Richard Foley,Mr. Robert Buggin,Mr. Iohn Deacle,Mr. Henry Vernon,Mr. Thomas Hunt,Mr. Sam. Lowbrige,
Stewards of the Worcester-shire-Feast, 1680.GENTLEMEN,IN Obedience to your Desires, I here present you with that Dis∣course of Mine, I lately enter∣tain'd you with: Mine, I say, such as it was, as I then de∣livered it in the Pulpit; but Yours now, such as it is, as it appears to the world from the Press. I could not but look upon it as a Testimony of great Respect, and I do with Thank-fulness acknowledge it, that

you should make choice of Me for opening the Scene of your anew-intended yearly Feast, after the interruption of above twenty years. Wherefore I thought fit to pitch my thoughts upon such a subject as might include most of those Ends, for which such Meetings should be designed. How well or ill I have handled it, I must leave to the judgment of the Pious and Ingenuous Reader.
If others shall find any Satisfaction or Be∣nefit in the perusal of This, whatever it be, they must owe it to You, who Desired, that is, Ordered me to throw it into the Publick; or if they meet with any thing that may Dissatisfie or Offend them, they ought out of Charity to Ex∣cuse Me, who could not but Obey.
Your Affectionate Country-man, and Servant, Adam Littleton.Westminster,Iuly 22. 1680.A SERMON Preached at a Solemn Meeting OF The Gentlemen and Natives OF WORCESTER-shire, 1680.Right Honourable, Worthy and Dearly beloved Christians and Country-men, hear the Word of God, as you will find it written in the
II Epist. of St. Peter, chap. 1. vers. 7.And to Godliness [add] Brotherly Kindness; and to Brotherly Kind∣ness, Charity.
THe Words, I have now read unto you, as they are very necessary and suita∣ble to the general purposes of Christianity, so are they no less seasonable and fit for the

particular occasion and business of our pre∣sent Meeting.
First, Here is Godliness in a more especial manner to be practised by us at the Church, where we are now met, in our attendance upon the service of God and hearing his Word. Then, Brotherly Kindness to be shewn, when we meet at the Table at our En∣tertainment, by renewing our interrupted Acquaintances, and expressing the mutual Offices of Love. And lastly, Charity at our Departure thence, to be exhibited to those of our absent Brethren, whether here or in the Country, who may any way stand in need of our Assistance.
We begin this days work with Godliness, we are to continue it in Brotherly K