The arraignment, trials, conviction and condemnation of Sir Rich. Grahme ... and John Ashton, Gent. for high treason against ... King William and Queen Mary ... at the sessions ... holden ... on the 16th, 17th and 19th days of January, 1690 ... : to which are added two letters taken at Dublin the 4th of July, 1690.


THE
ARRAIGNMENT, &c.
OF
Sir Richard Grahme, Baronet,
Viscount PRESTON in the Kingdom of Scotland,
AND
John Ashton, Gent.Anno Regni Domini WILLIELMI & Dominae
MARIAE, Angl. &c. Secundo.
Die Veneris, 16. die Januarii, Anno Dom. 1690.The King and Queens Writ of Habeas Corpora was sent to the Go∣vernour
of the Tower of London, to bring up the Bodies of
Sir Richard Grahme Baronet, Viscount Preston in the Kingdom of
Scotland, John Ashton and Edmund Elliot Gent. to the Sessions-house
in the Old-Baily, London; where they were brought between the
hours of Ten and Eleven in the Forenoon; and, being placed at
the Bar, were Arraigned upon an Indictment of High-Treason
found the day before by the Grand-Jury for the County of Mid∣dlesex,
at Hicks Hall, in manner following:
Cl. of Arraign∣ments.SIR Richard Grahme, hold up your hand, [Which he did,
and so the other two.]—You stand indicted by the names
of Sir Richard Grahme, late of the Parish of St. Anne
within the Liberty of Westminster, in the County of Mid∣dlesex,
Baronet; John Ashton, late of the Parish of St. Paul Covent-Garden in
the County aforesaid, Gentleman; and Edmund Elliott, late of the Parish of St.
James within the Liberty aforesaid in the County aforesaid, Gent. for that you,
as false Traytors against the most Illustrious and most Excellent Princes William
and Mary, King and Queen of England, Defenders of the Faith, &c. your So∣vereign
Lord and Lady, not having the fear of God in your hearts, nor weighing
the duty of your Allegiance, but being moved and seduced by the instigation of the
Devil, the cordial Love, and true, due, and natural Obedience, which every true
and faithful Subject of our said Sovereign Lord and Lady, the King and Queen
that now are, towards them our said Sovereign Lord and Lady the King and
Queen should, and of right ought to bear, wholly withdrawing; and contriving,

practising, and with all your strength indending the Peace and Common Tranquility
of this Kingdom of England to disquiet, molest, und disturb; and War and Re∣bellion
against our said Sovereign Lord and Lady, the King and Queen that now are,
within this Kingdom of England to stir up, move, and procure; and the Govern∣ment
of our said Lord and Lady the King and Queen of this Kingdom of Eng∣land
to subvert, change and alter; and our said Lord and Lady, the King and
Queen, from the Title, Honour, and Royal Name of the Imperial Crown of this
their Kingdom of England to depose and deprive; and our said Lord and Lady
the King and Queen to death and final destruction to bring and put; you the said
Sir Richard Grahme, John Ashton, and Edmund Elliott, the Nine and twen∣tieth
day of December, in the second y