A second guide to heaven shewing that it is every mans indispensable duty and interest to secure heaven for himself ... : likewise representing to consideration the common and notorious neglects and mistakes about this business of so great concernment, the saving or losing self / by S.H. ...


A SECOND GUIDE TO HEAVEN, SHEWING, That it is every Mans Indispensable Duty and Interest to secure Heaven for himself; BECAƲSE Whoever misseth it, and is lost, is utterly undone, and miserably wretched, and the whole World is nothing to him, to help, or comfort him.
AND The Man that is Sav'd is unspeakably and Eternally Blessed.
LIKEWISE Representing to Consideration the common and notorious neglects and mistakes about this business of so great Concernment The Saving or Losing SELF.
By S. H. the Author of the former Guide to HEAVEN.
Proximus sum Egomet mihi.
Nemo in sese tentat descendere
Nemo—
Nemo sapit, qui non sibi sapit.
E coelo descendit 〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉.
If thou be wise, thou shalt be wise for thy self; But if thou scornest, thou alone shalt bear it. Prov. 9.12.LONDON, Printed for A. Churchill in Ave-Mary-Lane, and sold by W. Churchill Bookseller in Dorset, 1687.
THE EPISTLE.BRethren, my hearts desire and Prayer to God is, that you might be Sav'd, I long after you all in the Bowels of Jesus Christ, but I have great heaviness and continual sorrow in my Heart, being jealous over you with a Godly jealously, fearing least by any means, as the Serpent beguil d Eve through his subtilty, you should be corrup∣ted from the simplicity that is in Christ. I am sensible of my great neglect and un∣faithfulness, as to my great work and the good of Souls; and finding some decays and loud warnings, and knocks of Death to tell me, that this Earthly Tabernacle must shortly lye down in the dust, and that I am not like to amend what I have done amiss, to preach more powerfully, pray more heartily, and deal more faithfully than I have; I was willing to send abroad
 those few Lines, expressing my sense of the great danger the most are in by the neg∣lect of themselves. I wish that such got on good by many worthy labourers amongst them for many years, may now reap real benefit by this ensuing Discourse. I had many thoughts about it, whether I should send it drest up in an exact modish way, Methodically and Elaborately order'd, and neatly worded; But finding care about That loseth the Heart, Life, and power of Truths; I was resolv'd to let it run natu∣rally, as coming, I hope, from the very bottom of my Heart, searching as deep as possibly I could, into real and sound Truth, that it might reach to the bottom of your Hearts, and do you real good.
I confess, I have been too much pleas'd with Elegant and Eloquent Sermons, with Exact, Ingenious, and Elaborate Treatises. But of late, I find, the Wit, the Method, the Language, eat up the Heart and substance of the Truth. I can't observe such exactness this way in Holy Writ; but Ministers labour much to force such coherence