The declaration of Major-Generall Brown, concerning the Lord Generall Fairfax, and the Army, and the raising of forces, for securing and guarding of the City of London, and putting it into a posture of warre. With his speech in Parliament touching the same, and his protestation thereupon. Also, the declaration, desires, and proposals of the House of Commons, to the Lord Generall. Subscribed, William Lenthall, Speaker. And His Maiesties speech concerning the Army, upon his comming to Hurst-Castle in VVilt-shire. Likewise. the resolution of the Army, touching the Parliament and city, and their joyfull propositions thereupon.



THE DECLARATION Of Major-Generall BROWN, CONCERNING The Lord Generall Fairfax, and the Army, and the raising of Forces, for securing and guarding of the City of London, and putting it into a posture of WARRE.
WITH His Speech in Parliament touching the same, and his Protestation thereupon.
ALSO, The Declaration, Desires, and Proposals of the House of Commons, to the Lord Generall.
Subscribed, WILLIAM LENTHALL, Speaker.
AND His Maiesties Speech concerning the Army, upon his com∣ming to Hurst-Castle in VVilt-shire.
LIKEWISE. The Resolution of the Army, touching the Parliament and City, and their joyfull Propositious thereupon.
Printed for C. VV. neer the Royall Exchange in Cornhill, 1648.







Major Generall BROWNE HIS SPEECH In PALIAMENT,
Concerning the Lord Generall Fairfax, and his De∣claration touching the Army.BOth Houses having received a Letter from the Lord Generall Fairfax, for the gaining to such ends as have been proposed in the Armies late Remonstrance, and pressing them to the present appre∣hension of the dangerous Juncture of affaires; the Commons began to consult upon the same, whose de∣bates for'd up, and flew exceeding high; some moving
 that his Excellencies Commission might be made null and taken from him; Others, that the Army might be required to retreat 40 miles from London, and others moved, that the City might be put into a posture of War; but Sheriff Brown stood up, and made an excel∣lent Speech, declaring, That there was nothing to be ex∣pected from the City, and that f•r his part he would indea∣vour the preservation of the peace thereof, and to keepe a right understanding between his Excellency, the City, and Army. And Mr Pryn declared his sense and resolution touching the Army, cyting many presidents, that many have been voted traytors •or disobeying auth r•ty of Parliament, but for his part he would not say that any were such. After some disputation and debate thereon, the House voted that a Declaratory Letter should be presented to the Generall, a coyy whereof followeth,
May it please your Excellency,THe House taking notice by your Letter of the 30. of Novem. touching the present motion and designe of the army, have commanded m• to let you know, that upon matu•e deliberate judging, that it may be dange∣rous both to the City and army; it is their pleasure that you remov• not the army near London;