A declaration of His Excellency Sir Thomas Fairfax, and his Councell of Warre, on behalfe of themselves and the whole armie;:  shewing the grounds of their present advance towards the city of London. By the appointment of his Excellency Sir Thomas Fairfax and his Councell of Warre. Signed Io. Rushworth Secr.


A DECLARATION Of His Excellency Sir Thomas Fairfax, AND His COUNCELL of WARRE, ON Behalfe of themselves and the whole ARMIE; Shewing the grounds of their present advance towards the City of LONDON.
By the appointment of his Excellency Sir THOMAS FAIRFAX and his Councell of Warre.
Signed IO. RUSHWORTH Secr.
LONDON, Printed for George Whittington, 1647.
A Declaration from his Excellency Sir Thomas Fairfax, and the Councel of Warre.VVHen this Army was formerly led by the ma∣nifold dispensations of Gods providence, and the grounds then declared, to advance to∣wards the City of London, we held it our du∣ty, to yeeld the Kingdom, the summe of those desires which we had to propose on behalf of it, our selves, wherein we should acquiesce: And having received from the Parliament, some hopes of due satisfaction therein, and some assurance from the Lord Mayor, Aldermen, and Common-Councell of the City of London, of their ready concurrence with us in those things, & also great resolution professed by them of their care and tender∣nesse to preserve all the Rights and Priviledges of Parliament, safe, free, and inviolated, from attempts of all kinds, we doe ap∣peals to God, to the City, and to al men, what a speedy comply∣ance to their desires for our removal to a further distance, found in this Army, for preventing all feares, jealousies, and other in∣conveniencies to the City, and to give clear testimony, that wee had nothing in our breasts, but thoughts of peace, and the good and welfare both of Parliament, City, and Kingdom, notwith∣standing many false & scandalous reports raised, that we sought our selves, that we had vile and wicked ends, and that nothing would satisfie the souldier but the plunder of the City, the con∣trary whereof did manifestly appear, when they so readily mar∣ched

back upon hopes of satisfaction in their Desires of publike concernment.
Having then upon the aforesaid confidence so withdrawne, and out of a just sense of the Countries suffering (by quarte∣ting) removed the Head-quarter of the Army above 40. miles from London, and dispersed the rest well nigh 200. miles for the more ease of all parts, and that we might give the better sa∣tisfaction to the Kingdom. And being in this secure way, and labouring after the suddain settlement of the Kingdom, we had even brought to perfection the particular proposals (included in the generals of our first Representation) to be sent to the Par∣liament, for a finall conclusion of all our troubles. And also had made good progresse towards the present reliefe of distressed Ireland, by assigning a competent force, both of horse and foot forthwith to have advanced for that service.
But the Kingd