Antiquitas theologica & gentilis, or, Two discourses the first, concerning the original of churches and their direct or collateral endowments : the second, touching the religion of the gentiles, their temples, priests, sacrifices and other ancient rituals : work necessary for divines, lawyers, antiquaries, historians and poets / by Thomas Philipot ...


ANTIQUITA• Theologica & Gentilis.
OR, TWO DISCOURSES
THE FIRST, Concerning the ORIGINAL 〈◊〉 CHURCHES, and their D• rect or Collateral Endowment•
THE SECOND, Touching the RELIGION of the GEN∣TILES, their TEMPLES, PRIESTS▪ SACRIFICES, and other Ancien• RITUALS.
Work necessary for DIVINES▪ LAWYERS, ANTIQUA∣RIES, HISTORIANS, an• POETS.
By THOMAS PHILIPOT, M. A. an• formerly of Clare-Hall in Cambridge.
LONDON,•rinted by W. G. and sold by R. Needham at the Bell in little S. Bartholomews, 1670
To his LEARNED FRIEND Sr PHILIP WARWICK Of Frog-Poole-Place in Kent, Knight.SIR,THis Treatise im∣plores your Pa∣tronage as an Umbrella to over-sha∣dow it, and your Ap∣probation to secure &

support it; so that if its Leaves shall begin to wither, being blast∣ed with any malevo∣lent Censure, they will contract new Sap and Verdure, animated & improv'd with your Protection; it is ready to receive its Death at your Command, and can entitle its Life on∣ly to your acceptance: But, Sir, your Judg∣ment

and Candor are folded up together in an equal complication and mixture; as you have Art to judge, so you have Charity to forgive,
Sir, Your very humble Servant,Thomas Philipot.TO THE READER.Courteous Reader,I Have at last rallied into one Body some scat∣tered Notions fitted and in∣tended originally for my pri∣vate Memorials, and having knit and cimented them toge∣ther into one Frame or Con∣texture, make them the Ob∣ject

of thy Mercy and Ju∣stice, by offering them up to be winnow'd by the publick; so certain it is, that the Rea∣ders censure is still the Wri∣ters Fate. They had for ever silently slept in their own sheath and secresie, had not the Importunity of some Friends (whose Influence hath always so vigorous an Impression upon me, that their Desires are Commands, and their Requests, Obligations) engaged me to devote them to a more General Inspection, yet there are some Errors by an unhappy intertexture in∣terwoven

in this Discourse, which owe their double extra∣ction to the Pen and Press. Some things are omitted which may be added, as a just and necessary Supplement; and some things inserted which may be par'd away as a superfluous Excrescence; as namely, pag. 3. For some∣times seated, read some∣times were seated. And whereas p. 47. these words through inadvertency are in∣serted, viz. (Having wrap'd up this Discourse in as brief a Circumscription asI could, I now proceed to discover a Scale or Regi∣ster of those Recto•ies or Vicarages, and their respe∣ctive Patrons both ancient and modern, as they lie empal'd in the Diocesses of Canterbury & Rochester) they must be obliterated and expung'd, as relating to ano∣ther Dis