[Apographē storgēs], or, A description of the passion of love demonstrating its original, causes, effects, signes, and remedies / by Will. Greenwood, [Philalethēs].


Απογραφε Ϛοργεσ. OR, A DESCRIPTION OF THE PASSION OF LOVE. DEMONSTRATING Its Orignal, Causes, Effects, Signes, and Remedies.
By Will. Greenwood, 〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉.
Omne meum. Nil meum.
Nihil dictum quod non dictum prius.
LONDON, Printed for William Place at Grayes Inne-gate in Holborn, 1657.
To the Service and Delight of all truly Noble, Generous and Honest Spirits of both Sexes; The AUTHOR Dedicateth these his Exiguous Devoyres.NOBLE HEARTS,BEing invited with several pleasing Considerations, and delightful Motives to appear the second time upon the slip∣pery stage of this World; I here pre∣sent to your view a Description of a Passion too much regent in this britle age. The worke is of no great substance, not much Satyrical nor Critical;
only glances, like the Dogs of Nilus, taking a touch here and there. It may happily appear at the first view, a meer congested Chaos, and somewhat indi∣gested and promiscuously handled; I can assure you my meaning was me∣thodical; but I hope your favoura∣ble opinions will dissipate the foggy mists of erronious misprision, and be really clarified in your considerate censure. I cannot conceive what more acceptable present may be offered unto you, then that which with an appar•nt brevity compriseth the Original, •e∣nerality, Definition, Causes, Ef∣fects, Signes, &c. of Love. For which purpose, and your greater con∣tentment, I have madly rambled in eve∣ry one of them. If I have over roaved, gone wide, or falne short, it's not un∣like

you may impute it to my folly of precipitancy. In this (to forge an ex∣cusive answer) I shall not unfit∣tingly resemble the Painter, who be∣ing to figure forth the fury of a mad Dog, the better to expresse it, stood long curiously pidling about the froth or fome issuing from his mouth; but finding nothing frame fitly to his invention, rashly takes up his pencil▪ dashes it against the Picture, with an intent to spoil it; howbeit this suddain accident prevailed to make his work more excellent. So may I in these suddain touches pencil out this Passi∣on with a more lively tincture, then if I had been tediously curious in con∣triving, or vaingloriously to embellish them with quaint ear-pleasing Elo∣cution. To speak the reall truth, you

must not expect any additional orna∣ments of Rhetorick, nor neat flourishes of Eloquence, or wyre-drawn phra∣ses, meer inke-pot termes, or a hodg∣podge of a laboured contexture: but a plain and smooth style which best be∣comes our subject. I am not passio∣nately enamoured on pety Courtships, like to those Helena's all of gold, where we can behold nothing but Drapery; but my sole aim is to speak to be understood: I have more laboured at the reality of the matter, then orna∣ment of words; for he that courts his pen, and neglects the matter, shall alwayes have trouble enough to defend hi