Guzman, Hinde, and Hannam outstript being a discovery of the whole art, mistery and antiquity of theeves and theeving, with their statutes, laws, customs and practises, together with many new and unheard of cheats and trepannings.


GƲZMAN, HINDE AND HANNAM OUTSTRIPT: BEING A Discovery of the whole Art, Mistery and Antiquity of THEEVES AND THEEVING: WITH THEIR Statutes, Laws, Customs and Practises.
TOGETHER WITH Many new and unheard of CHEATS and TREPANNINGS.
LONDON, Printed and are to be sold in Pauls Church∣yard. 1657.
The Preface to the Reader.MEns naturall in∣clination is al∣wayes prone and addicted to so great rashnesse, that though vice of it selfe is so abo∣minable & blame-wor∣thy, notwithstanding there be too many who openly praise it, and ac∣count it their honour to practise it. Thence it cō∣meth to passe that theft,
being a pernicious vice and forbidden by the Lawes, doth not cease to be followed by many, who to defend them∣selves from the reproa∣ches which may be laid against them, alleage that the Lacedemonians a peo∣ple very severe and just, permitted the use there∣of to their youth; that the Aegyptians held those for able men that could steal best. That for the same subject the Poets in their writings have brag∣ged of the subtilty of Mercurius, and of the cunning of the god∣desse
Laverna who was the Theeves Patronesse. Briefly, that this profes∣sion is made commenda∣ble by the crafty trickes of many that have exer∣cised it, such as were Pro∣metheus the father of Deu∣calion, Cacus and Autolicus, the one the son of Vulcan and the other of Mercurie, Arsaces King of the Par∣thians, Denis Tyrant of Sici∣lie, The Emperour Nero, Leo sonne of Constantine Copronimus, Fulvius, Flaccus Censor, Ninus King of Ae∣gipt, to whom Iustin ascri∣beth the invention of so fine a trade, and a great
many others with whō the books of Authors are filled. To which we may adde, that even the most understanding men are not free from this vice, if it be certaine (as saith Simplicius) that the Prince of the Peripatetiques (A∣ristotle) stole that which he hath from the most excellent of those that went before him. That Virgil drew all his richest inventions from Homor, Hesiod and Theocritus, and that Cicero boldly furnisht himselfe with the do∣ctrine of the Stoiques Aca∣demiques and Epicures.
But for all this, it can∣not be but that naturall reason must put downe all these vaine opinions, because according to A∣quinas, Theft is quite cō∣trary to that love which we owe to our Neigh∣bours, and with-all to Gods Law and mans Law. And to this effect beside that in Exodus and Leviticus it is expresly for∣bidden, it is yet also de∣tested by the Apostle S. Paul, where speaking to the Ephesians he saith, Let him that stole steale no more: but let him rather labour and worke with his hands. Also
the people of old taking notice of this truth or∣dained against Theeves severall sorts of punish∣ments, especially the Gre∣cians & the Athenians, as Lu∣dovicus Vives doth very we