Two intercepted letters from Sr. William Brereton to the Earle of Essex and M. Pym concerning the rebels affaires in the North : the originalls whereof were sent by an expresse to the Earle of Essex according to His Majesties direction this 8. of July, 1643.


TWO INTERCEPTED LETTERS From Sr WILLIAM BRERETON to the Earle of ESSEX, and M. PYM; concerning the Rebells affaires in the NORTH.
The Originalls whereof were sent by an Expresse to the Earle of ESSEX, according to His MAJESTIES direction, this 8. of Iuly, 1643.
Printed Verbatim according to the Originalls, BY LEONARD LICHFIELD, Printer to the Vniversity. 1643.
May it please your Excellence.I received this day a Letter from Captain Duckenfield, and another from Captain Booth, importing that my Lord Fairfax and the Lan∣cashire Forces (being joy∣ned and encountring with the Lord New∣castle) were routed and pursued to Brad∣ford, which Towne also was taken by the Earle of Newcastles Forces, and Leedes be∣sieged, whereby the Earle of Newcastle is possessed of all Yorkshire, except Hull and Leedes.
The Lancashire Forces being also defea∣ted (as I am informed) there remaines very few, except those small forces We have, (which are more then sufficiently matched

with the Lord Capell) to make opposition and resistance, unlesse your Excellence in your Wisdom think fit some wayes to pro∣vide for the prevention of so great a danger, as may ensue upon gathering and increasing of his Forces, by subduing and spoyling the Country.
I hope your Excellence will excuse and pardon what was intended for the assi∣stance of my Lord Grey, being necessarily employed for the defence of these parts. But if your Lordship Command other∣wise, I shall account it a part of my duty to obey your Excellency, to whom I will al∣wayes professe to remaine.
Stafford,Iuly. 4. 1643.Your Excellences most humble servant WILL: BRERETON.My Lord Fairfax and his Son it is said are in Leedes, where I heare they are distressed.
Superscribed, For his Excellence the Earle of Essex, these humbly present Speed.
Sir,I Can doe no lesse then ac∣count it a part of my duty to Communicate unto you what I received yesternight from Captain Duckenfield, and others, touching the bad successe of the Lord Fairfax, and the Lancashire men in their encounter with the Earle of Newcastles Forces, being routed and pursued to Bradford, which Towne was by the Enemies Granadoes set on fire and taken: the report whereof struck such a Terror into the Hallifax men, as that thereupon they deserted the Town, where∣by the Earle of Newcastles Forces are be∣come possessed of all that great County of
Yorkshire, except Hull and Leedes, whither the Lord Fairfax, and Sir Thomas Fairfax are escaped, and wherein it is said they are besieged and distressed. It is not to be ex∣pected that there can be prevention given to the progresse, advance, and encrease of this Army, unlesse some considerable force can be sent downe to joyne with the Coun∣try, and to assist and make head, there