A parish looking-glasse for persecutors of ministers ... or, The persecuted ministers apologie published by Richard Culmer ... in defence of his father, Richard Culmer ...


A
PARISH LOOKING-GLASSE
FOR
Persecutors of Ministers.
Wherein
Such persecuting People may behold their ugly-faced sinfull
Condition, and the Judgments of God falling on their heads.
OR,
The Persecuted Ministers Apologie.
Published by Richard Culmer for the Common Good.
Especially,
That the Christian Magistrate may take more notice of, and be
more zealous against Persecutors and Oppressors of faith∣full
Ministers: which Persecutors endeavour, first, to
ruine Ministers which are weaker in power than
Magistrates; intending afterwards more easily
to ruine Magistrates also, and level all.
AND
That people (Sectaries and others) which despise, mock, revile, slander,
defraud, oppress faithful Ministers, sent by the care and wisdom of the
Christian Magistrate, may be warned by the Judgements full of
horrour, upon such Persecutors, herein recorded, which
God hath set forth for example to others.
And published by him more especially,
In Defence of his Father Richard Culmer, Minister of Mynster,
in the County of Kent, in the Isle of Thanet, near Canterbury.
To prevent his said Fathers causless ruin, which is now endeavoured by those, who (as
the ensuing History shews, after many publick, shameless, savage Persecutions of
him, by word and deed, to the shedding of his bloud, only for his actings for God
and the present State) now go about by secret false suggestions, to have him cast out
of his Living; and of their Confidence to prevail against him it is boasted in
Canterbury, and elswhere publickly, which hath caused this publick Apology.
Psal. 7. 13.God ordaineth his Arrows against the Persecutors.Matth. 23. 37.O Hierusalem, Hierusalem, thou that killest the Prophets, and stonest them
that are sent unto thee, &c.1 Cor. 15. 32.I have fought with beasts at Ephesus, after the manner of men.2 Cor. 6. 9.Persecuted, yet not forsaken.London, Printed by Abraham Miller, 1657.
TO THE HONOURABLE
Collonel ROBERT GIBBON,
Governour of the Isle of Jersey, &c.Right Honourable,YOur native Countrey (the County of Kent) hath many
obligations of much due respect unto you, for your prudent
and valiant actings formerly, and at present, for the wel∣fare
and safety thereof. And your courteous respests to
all, and to my Father in special (heretofore and lately, in
that you were pleased to honour him, by calling on him to
accompany you, when you surveyed the places of danger for landing a for∣reign
enemy along the Sea-coasts in the Isle of Tanet, which lies over∣against
the Coasts of Flanders.) And your undeserved favours to my
self, have encouraged me to presume of, and crave your worthy Patronage
of the ensuing Apologie, which the law of filial love and duty hath compelled
me to write, in the speedy and necessary defence of my aged Father, whose
Ministerial imploiments will not give him leisure to do it with hi