A treatise of the gout Written originally in the French tongue, by Theodor Turquet, De Mayerne, knight, Baron of Aubonne, councellor, and chief physitian to the late King and Queen of England. Englished for the general benefit, by Thomas Sherley, M.D. physitian in ordinary to his present Majesty Charles the II. Whereunto is added, advice about hypochondriacal-fits, by the same author.


A TREATISE OF THE GOUT.
Written Originally in the French Tongue, By THEODOR TURQUET, DE MAYERNE, Knight, Baron of Aubonne, Councellor, and chief Physitian to the late KING and QUEEN of ENGLAND.
Englished for the general Benefit, By Thomas Sherley, M. D. Physitian in Ordinary to his pre∣sent Majesty Charles the II.
Whereunto is added, Advice about Hypochondriacal-Fits, by the same Author.
London, Printed for D. Newman, at the King's Arms in the Poultrey, 1676.
THE EPISTLE TO THE READER.Reader,HAving perused this ensuing Treatise of the Gout, (which fell but lately into my hands) I found it not only so Ingenious, but so Solid and Useful a Work, that I thought it much pitty, it should remain lock'd up from the knowledge of those worthy persons of our own Nation, which languish under the affliction of this tortu∣ring
Disease; and therefore I have taken the pains to present you with it in our Native Language: I was the more encouraged to do this, be∣cause both the Principles and Me∣thod which this worthy Author makes use of, are not only very ra∣tional, but consonant for the most part with those of my own, which I had assumed many years before I had a sight of this Book; the use∣fulness of which Method and Prin∣ciples (though not in all particulars the same with my own, especially the Medicines; yet having the same tendency) I can recommend by way of Analogy from my own practice, which hath been employ'd a∣bout the Persons of divers of eminent Worth, Learning, and Dignity in this Kingdom; not only by way of giving ease in, and shortning the Paroxysm, or Fits of the Gout, but by returning the Parts to their Tone, Strength, and Vigour, af∣terthe Fits are past, and also by preventing the otherwise too fre∣quent returns and assaults of this Disease: All which I do assert (whatever the opinion of some others may be to the contrary) not only may probably be done, but that I have actually done it to Regular and Judicious Persons, with a con∣stant and laudable success. And all this not (as some erroniously suppose) by hindering Nature from discharging the Gouty humor up∣on the joynts, which indeed was a dangerous way, but by actually and really removing the Diseasie-Product, and carrying on the Of∣fending matter by rationally-com∣pos'd, safe, and easie Medicines; by this means hindering the Dis∣ease from recruiting it self, & get∣ting head; & by this Method, I have preserved some, divers years toge∣ther, in a Vigorous and healthy state of Body. Wherefore (I say)finding this worthy Author so nearly concurring with my own Senti∣ments, I thought it would be an Obliging Service to