Of laying on of hands Heb. 6. 2. Or, a discourse containing these 4. chapters. 1. Of the several ends of laying on of hands, in the New Testament. 2. What laying on of hands, is not, and cannot be meant. Heb. 6. 2. 3. What laying on of hands, is and must be meant there. 4. That the laying on of hands, practised by some in these days, on all baptized believers, was never instituted, commanded, nor practised at all, by Jesus Christ, or his apostles in all the New Testament.


OF
Laying on of Hands.
Heb. 6. 2.
OR, A
DISCOURSE
Containing these 4. Chapters.
1. Of the several Ends of Laying on of Hands, in the New Te∣stament.2. What Laying on of Hands, is not, and cannot be meant.
Heb. 6. 2.3. What Laying on of Hands, is and must be meant there.4. That the Laying on of Hands, practised by some in these
days, on all Baptized Believers, was never Instituted,
Commanded, nor practised at all, by Jesus Christ, or his
Apostles in all the New Testament.Mark. 7. 7, 8, 9.In vain do they worship me, teaching for Doctrines the Com∣mandements
of men.
For, laying aside the Commandment of God, ye hold the Tradi∣tion
of men.
Ye reject the Commandment of God, that ye may keep your own
Traditions.
Col. 2. 8.Beware lest any man spoil you, through vain deceit, after the
Tradition of men, and not after Christ.LONDON, Printed by John Streater, 1656.
CHAP. I. Of the several Ends of Laying on of Hands, in the New
Testament.FOr the better understanding of this great Controversy, of
late raised, about Laying on of Hands;
We shall first consider the several Ends, of Laying on of
Hands, practised in the New Testament.
Upon search we finde, this Rice or Ceremony was used, upon a
threefold Account, or to a threefold End.
1. For Healing or recovering the sick.
2. For ministring or giving the extraordinary gifts of the Ho∣ly
Spirit.
3. For Ordaining and appointing of Officers.
1. For Healing or recovering the sick. Mark 16. 18. They
shall Lay Hands on the sick, and they shall recover.
Acts. 28. 8. The father of Publius lay sick, &c. and Paul laid
his Hands on him, and healed him.
2. For ministring, or giving the Holy Spirit. To this end Pe∣ter
and John Laid their Hands on them at Samaria. Acts 8. 17,
18, 19. Then laid they their Hands on them and they received
the Holy Spirit. And when Simon saw, that through Laying on
of the Apostles Hands, the Holy Spirit was given, &c.
And that hereby is meant the extraordinary Gifts of the holy
ly Spirit, nothing is more evident. For,
Verse 12. it is said, they Believed.
Verse 14. that they had received the Word of God.
Verse 16. that they were Baptized.
All which could not be, unless they had already received the
ordinary measures of the Spirit.
Further it is yet more evident from the Text it self; for after
all this, it is said, They received the Holy Spirit by Laying on of
Hands, ver. 17.
And that before this, the Holy Spirit was fallen upon none of
them. ver. 15, 16: A phrase, peculiar to the extraordinary Gifts
of the Holy Spirit, See Acts