A narrative of the Irish popish plot for the betraying that kingdom into the hands of the French, massacring all Englidh Protestants there, and utter subversion of the government and Protestant-religion, as the same was successively carryed on from the year 1662 : given in to both Houses of Parliament / by David Fitzgerald.


Die Sabathi 20 Novembris, 1680.THis House being moved, That David Fitz Gerald Esq;
may have leave to Print his Information given to this
House, concerning the Horrid Plot and Conspiracy in
Ireland; It is Ordered by the Lords Spiritual and Temporal in
Parliament Assembled, That the said David Fitz Gerald hath
hereby leave given him to Print and publish the said Informa∣tion.
Jo. Browne Cleric.
Parliamentorum.ADVERTISEMENT.WHereas there is one John Fitz Gerald, or at least goes under
that name, who is said to be formerly a Fryer or Priest,
upon whom there has been some scandalous reflexions, this is he
who was seized in Bristol, going for Ireland to search for Commis∣sions
in Old Wall; I would only beg of the Reader, not to take
me for this man.
David Fitz Gerald.A
NARRATIVE
OF THE
Irish Popish Plot,
For the betraying that
KINGDOM
Into the hands of the
FRENCH,
Massacring all ENGLISH PROTESTANTS there,
And utter Subversion of the
GOVERNMENT
AND
Protestant-Religion;
As the same was successively carryed on from the
Year 1662.
Given in to both Houses of Parliament.
By DAƲID FITZ GERALD Esq;.
LONDON:
Printed for Tho. Cockerill, at the Three-Legs in the Poultrey over-against
the Stocks-Market, 1680.
A
NARRATIVE
OF THE
Irish Popish Plot.SInce we have manifestly found by woful experience, That
the Princely favours, and tender proceedings of His late
Majesty towards the Irish, proved altogether ineffectual to
contain them within the bounds of Loyalty and Duty, but
still they suffer themselves to be led blindfold into fatal Re∣bellions,
by the pernitious Counsels of their Priests, the World
may easily believe (by their proceedings in the last Rebellion) that
their designs are always on foot, and tending to no less than the
utter subversion of the English Government in Ireland, and esta∣blishing
the Power in the hands of their own Natives and Religion.
For confirmation hereof, we need not look back so far as the Testi∣mony
of that Franciscan Fryar, one of their Council, who de∣clared,
That the Session of Parliament held at Dublin, being Pro∣rogued
in Aug. 1641, and the time drawing nigh for putting their
designs of surprizing Dublin-Castle, and all other places in possessi∣on
of the English, into execution, there was a grand consult, or
meeting of the Romish-Clergy, and principal Lay-men of their
Faction, appointed to be at the Abbey of Multifarvan in the Coun∣ty
of Westmeath, where amongst other matters there debated, the
Question was, what course should be taken with the English, and
all others that were found in the whole Kingdom to be Protestants;
and by their subsequent Practises it appear'd, that no less than a
general Massacre was