A treaty of pacification.:  Or Conditions of peace between God and man. / By H.I.


 [illustration] Miserere mei Deus. Flevit amarè
A TREATY of PACIFICATION OR CONDITIONS of PEACE BETWEEN GOD AND MAN. 
Ps: 51.17.A broken & contrite Heart (ô God) thou wilt not despise.

By H. J.
1642.
London.
Printed for R. Thral.
W. M. sculp:
TO THE CHRISTIAN READER.IN Multiloquio non deest pecca∣tum.In the mul∣titude of words there wanteth not sinne, said the Wiseman long since: and what he said of Tal∣king, may we not apply to Prin∣ting? If Mendacium (a Lye) be sinne, as I trust none will deny, though it be officiosum or jocosum, the officious or jeasting Lye, then
we may without offence conclude, that (as some now licentious∣ly assume to themselves) in much printing there wanteth not sinne. So many (Bookes I am loath to call them) Pamphlets issue daily from the Presse, without Authority, nay point blanke a∣gainst Authority, and they so stuffed with untruths, as though the Authors thinke it lawfull to draw sinne with cartropes.
Well, to this multitude of Bookes or Pamphlets (call them what you please) I have adventured to beare the retor∣ting of that fault I found in others, and to adde one more to the number: as fitting for the time, and (I am sure) of a more necessary and weighty im∣port and consequence, and in a more orderly way, then many of them.
The subject of it is Repen∣tance, a harsh and unpleasing thing, I confesse to flesh and bloud: but for all that, it is unum necessarium, one of the most necessary duties to be urged, and which condu•eth most to our good at this time, especially when the sword not only hangeth over our heads, but hath begun to avenge the quarrell of the LORD in some part of this Land: and how soon it may be felt amongst us and the other part of our Kingdome, we know not: And this, not the sword of an Adversary from with∣out, but (which is a worse judgement) from within, a∣mongst our selves, by Civill (or rather as S. Augustine calls it, uncivill) Warre and dissen∣tion. Mala quae quantò in∣teriora sunt, tantò miseriora,Evills, are the more miserable, by how much they grow the more inward, saith he.
If it were but the sword from abroad, it were sufficient to a∣wake and rouze us from the dead sleepe of sinne, wherein we have so long lyen, and to stirre us up to this duty: there is as well Danger, as in∣citement enough in that. For the Heathen Orator saith of it, non solum adventus Belli, &c. Not only Warre it selfe when it comes, but the very feare of it, brings calamity enough with it: For when the E∣nemies Forces are not farre off (though they enter not at all, yet) people forsake their Cattell, the Husbandman de∣serts his Tillage, and the Mer∣chant his commerce and Traf∣fique.
But come we to consider Ci∣vill and domestique Warre, and wee shall find, hee calls that, Bellum perniciocissimum, the most pernecious Warre of all other. Our Saviour tells us in few words the effects of it. If a Kingdome be divi∣ded within it selfe, that Kin