The judgments of Providence in the hand of Christ: his voice to us in the terrible earthquake. And the earth devoured by the curse. : In four sermons. / By Benjamin Colman. ; [Four lines from Isaiah]


The Judgments of Providence in the hand of CHRIST: His Voice to us in the terrible Earthquake. And the Earth devoured by the Curse.
In four SERMONS.
By Benjamin Colman.
Isaiah XXIX. 9.Thou shalt be visited of the LORD of hosts with thunder, and with earthquake and great noise; with storm and tempest, and the flame of de∣vouring fire.
BOSTON: Printed for J. Phillips at the Stationers-Arms on the South side of the Town House, and T. Han¦cock at the Bible and Three Crowns near the Town Dock, 1727.
Errata.P. 6. l. 21. r. sit. p. 12. l. 6. for and r. that. p. 14. l. 11. dele and. p. 27. l. 5. r. shewed. p. 39. l. 1. r. feeling. p. 41. l. 28. r. pr fane. p. 51. l. 7. r. he went forth. p. 72. l. 25. r. the Psalm.
To the Reader.THE late surprising and awful Event of Provi∣dence wherein the most High GOD hath pas∣sed before us, in an amazing Earthquake, of vast extent and in a degree of uncommon ter∣ror; whether we consider the greatness of the Shock, or the great noise that attended it; is the occasion of publishing the following Sermons, tho' not of the preach∣ing them all.
For within the month wherein the earthquake came I had preached twice to my People from this awful Subject, The Judgments of Providence in the hand of CHRIST: to which I added three Sermons more, in a proper and serious Application of the Subject to so singular and uncommon a Providence; wherein I have consider'd the Earthquake in the hand of CHRIST, and what his voice to us is in that teaching and affecting Dispensation. These five Sermons I have here re∣duced into three, only pointing the Reader where he may divide the contracted double Sermons, for the use and benefit of his houshold.
It is only the Christian Improvement of this awak∣ning Providence that I have here attended to, and the Reader is desired to expect no other; leaving the Enquiry into the natural Causes of Earthquakes, and the History of them, to a better Hand, which has pro∣mis'd to gratify the Publick therewith.
Something of the Scriptural history of the Earthquake is here given, and the peculiar honour of these Dis∣courses is their sincere Aim to render unto CHRIST the glory of this tremendous Judgment, and of our Preservation in it.

To HIM therefore let these Meditations be sacred (however mean and unworthy to be offer'd to his glorious Name) according to the Commandment and declared Will of the FATHER to us, Who hath com∣mitted all judgment to the SON, that all men should honour the Son even as they honour the father.
Our LORD has visited us this year as he told Ariel, the City where David dwelt, that it should be visited of the LORD of hosts with Thunder, and with Earthquake, and with great Noise; with Storm and Tem∣pest, and the flame of devouring Fire.
The great noise of thunder we have often heard, I hope wit