A brief account of some of the late sufferings of several Baptists inhabiting in New-London County in Connecticut Colony in New-England: who for no other cause than going to a meeting of their own society, were taken up on the King's Highway, and cruelly whipt at Norwich, July 26th. 1725. : Being also a reply to a small pamphlet lately put out by Joseph Backus, Esq; as he calls himself: in which pamphlet the author hath industriously laboured to deceive the world, and hide the cruelty of that matter; as also to promote persecution &c. All which deceit and false covering is here discovered, and a true and impartial relation of that matter given. / By John Rogers. ; [One line from Job]


ACCOUNT Of some of the late SUFFERINGS Of several Baptists inhabiting in New-•••don County in Connecticut Colony New-England: Who for no other 〈◊〉 than going to a Meeting of their Society, were taken up on the K•••• Highway, and cruelly whipt at Nor•••• July 26th. 1725.
Being also a REPLY To a small Pamphlet lately put out by Joseph Backus, Esq as he calls himself. In which Pamphlet the Author hath industriously laboured to deceive the World, and hide the Cruelty of that matter; as also to promote Persecution &c.
All which Deceit and false Covering is here discovered, and a true and impartial Relation of that matter given.
By JOHN ROGERS.
Joh. 3.20.For every one that doth evil hateth the Light, &c.
A brief Account, &c.THE Occasion of this Meeting, was up∣on the Request of Mary Man of Le∣banon, who sent us Word that she de∣sired to be Baptised by our Society according to the Rule given in Scripture, by Burying in the Water; and upon our re∣ceiving this Message, and considering that Christ's Ordinances ought to be Publickly Ad∣ministred, we drew up a Paper Signed by several of us, Signifying the time when we designed to Administer the Ordinance; which Paper was publickly set up in Lebanon, some Weeks before the time appointed; and though we ordered our Meeting there, (viz.) at Lebanon to begin on the first day of the Week, the day which we usu∣ally meet on as well as the rest of our Neigh∣bours, yet we appointed the second day of the Week for the Administration of the Ordinance, designing thereby to give the greater opportuni∣ty to any to be present, that otherwise might be prevented by their own Meetings. And accor∣dingly when the day came, we set out from our several Habitations in order to attend our ap∣pointed Meeting; and as we were passing through Norwich, we were stopt by the Consta∣ble and a rude Company of young Men, who

offered great abuse to some of 〈◊〉 Company, ••rticularly dragging a Woman 〈◊〉 Company by the Arm along on the Ground, and violently twitching her over the Door-Cill and throwing her on the Floor, whereby she was much hurt. The next day we were very cruelly whipt with an unmerciful Instrument, and then sent back to New-London and committed to Prison, &c.
In the next place I shall proceed to make Re∣ply to the aforesaid Pamphlet, &c.
In page