Whereas a book entitutled, Musæum Regalis Societatis being not only a perfect catalogue of all the rarities ... belonging to the Royal Society and preserved at Gresham Colledge... it is therefore proposed by the author, Doctor Nehemiah Grew, that whoever subscribeth ...


WHereas a Book Entituled, Musaeum Regalis Societatis, being not
only a perfect Catalogue of all the Rarities Natural and Arti∣ficial,
belonging to the Royal Society, and preserved at Gresham
Colledge.
But containing moreover large and full Descriptions of those Particulars,
which are either not at all, or falsly, or very defectively described in the
Musaeum's of Calceolarius, Septalius, Wormius, the Colledge of the Jesuites at
Rome, of Monsieur Ferdinand Cospy, or by Aldrovandus, Rondeletius, Gesnerus,
Salvianus, or other Authors.
Whereunto the more especial Vses, Natural, Medicinal and Mechanical, and
divers Experiments relating to them, are also added; all which will be com∣prized
in about Fourscore Printed Sheets:
Together with the Figures of such Particulars as are omitted by Others,
to be contained in about Twenty five half Sheets, wrought off from Copper-Plates.
Whereto is also subjoyned a Treatise, Entituled, The Comparative Anatomy
of the Stomachs and Guts of about Thirty sorts of Animals; being several
Lectures read before the Royal Society; which will be contained in about Ten
Printed Sheets.
With the Figures of the said Parts; which will be contained in about
Five half Sheets, likewise wrought off from Copper-Plates.
And both being, as at first undertaken upon the desire, so now to be
Published by the Order of the said Society.
IT is therefore Proposed by the Author, Doctor Nehemiah Grew, That whoever
Subscribeth for Six English Copies in Quires, or procureth Subscriptions for so
many, shall receive seven such Copies Imprinted with a fair Letter, upon very
good Paper, in Folio. And he that Subscribeth for one, or any number under
Six, shall receive his Copy or Copies of the same Impression and Paper as abovesaid,
to be prized at no more than a peny per Sheet, and a peny per Plate; which, for each
Copy, will amount to about Ten shillings.
Every Subscriber or Procurer giving Notice to the said Doctor Grew of his Sub∣scription,
or procured Subscriptions, at or before the Twentieth of April next: For that
it is intended the Copies shall not exceed the number of Subscriptions.
And within Fourteen days after Publick Notice is given to every Subscriber or
Procurer, That the Impression of the said Book is finished (which, God willing,
shall be within or before Michaelmas Term next) every Subscriber or Procurer to give
Order for the payment of the Subscription-Monies to the said Doctor Grew, upon the
Receipt of the said Copy or Copies, at his House near Warwick-Court in Warwick-Lane,
London.
Note, That although the said Book be prized no higher than at about Ten shillings,
yet at the usual and ordinary price, of Books of this nature, it will be worth about
Eighteen shillings.