Acolastus his after-witte. By S.N.



ACOLASTVS
HIS AFTER-WITTE. By S. N.
Semel insaniuimus omnes.AT LONDON
Imprinted for Iohn Baylie, and are to be
sold at his shop, neere the little North-doore
of Paules Church.
1600.

To his deare Achates, Master
Richard Warburton.MAruaile you may, at the
bolde approach of these
my vnblushing lines, the
first borne of my barren
inuention, who begotten
in my anticke age, now steps into the world
to seeke some worthie Godfather: but cer∣tes
if you weigh the inducing motiues,
whose all-iust (respect) perswading orato∣rie,
tempted my triuiall muse to this pre∣sumption:
I dare before hand, seale my
selfe a pardon, and promise gracious ac∣ceptance,
to this my poore Orphant in your
bosome. I hope you shall finde him ready
to acknowledge you before the world, not

for his owne sake alone, but for mine also,
who confesse my selfe so much indebted
to your loue, as me thinkes I can neuer de∣clare
it sufficiently, till thus the world be
witnes to it.
Your due,
Samuel Nicholson.



ACOLASTVS HIS
AFTER-WIT.
Eubulus. Acolastus.
Eub.
GRase on deare Flocks, & tend your blessed feeding,
While your sad Master wofull and forlorne,
In his poore Lambes a pensiue lesson reading,
With Sin-bred sorrow hayles the weeping morne;
The morne, who sampling men their sinnes to rue,
Hath washt earths motley face in weeping dewe.

Faire Queene Aurora, Beautie of the East,
What vncouth chance thy wonted cheere hath blent?
Whose blithsome vp-rise makes Nights prisoners blest,
And greets their waking harts with sweet content:
What spite hath rob'd thee of thy golden rayes,
The mild fore-runners of our Sommer dayes?

O may it be the Heauen-threatning deeds,
Of Earth-bred Gyants, Adams sinfull brood,
Thus gars thee maske in mal-contented weeds,
Drowning the daies light in a mistie moode?
What makes Heauens weep, thee lowre and earth to grone?
T'is men haue sinn'd, oh let them learne to mone.

O bottomles benignitie of God,
In schooling his poore sheepe from wanton gates;
Stead of Reuenge, he doth but shew the rod,
He loues our saftie while our sinnes he hates.
See, see, (O man) thine euerlasting shame,
All creatures rue the rigour of thy blame.

The brazen heauens conspire against our good,
Wreathing their watry browes in cloudes of raine:
The earth denies to nurse her wicked brood,
Wishing all flesh within her wombe againe.
All creatures crie vpon vs for offending,
And will not cease till we professe amending.

The seruants rating should rebuke the sonne,
A wise man schooles himselfe by others follie,
With the dumbe creatures Iustice hath begunne;
Gods fire is fierce, yet with the flame we dallie:
Our turne is next, Wrath beateth on our shoares,
Death and destruction linger at our doores.

Our neighbour countries burne in ciuill fire,
And Nero-like warme vs by the flame,
Securitie that false-suggesting lier,
So maskes our eyes, we doe not feare our game,
Till we haue proued with too deare a price,
That to our chance, their Fortune casts the dice.