A sermon preached before the Lords spiritual and temporal in Parliament assembled, in the Abbey-church at Westminster on the fifth of November, 1691 / by the Archbishop of York.


Die Veneris 6. Novemb. 1691.IT is Ordered by the Lords Spiritual
and Temporal in Parliament Assem∣bled,
That the Thanks of this HOUSE
shall be, and are hereby given to his Grace
the Lord Archbishop of York for his Ser∣mon
preached yesterday before this
HOUSE in the Abbey-Church at West∣minster.
And he is hereby desired to
Print and Publish the same.
Matth. Iohnson, Cler.
PARLIAMENTOR.A
SERMON
PREACHED
BEFORE THE
Lords Spiritual and Temporal
IN
PARLIAMENT
ASSEMBLED,
IN THE
ABBEY-Church at WESTMINSTER,
On the Fifth of November, 1691.
By the Archbishop of YORK.
LONDON,
Printed for Walter Kettilby, at the Bishops Head
in St. Paul's Church-Yard, 1691.
Rom. x. 2.For I bear them record that they have a zeal
of God, but not according to knowledge.THese are St. Paul's words, and he spoke
them of the Jews, those unbelieving
Jews that were so tenacious of the Tra∣ditions
of their Fathers, and so utterly averse
to any Reformation of Religion: That tho' it
appear'd by undeniable evidence that Christ
Jesus was by God sent into the World for that
purpose, yet, did they to the last stand out in
their opposition of him and his Gospel, even
to the final rejection of their Nation.
To these People doth St. Paul in this Chap∣ter
express a great compassion, heartily wish∣ing
and praying for their Conversion. Bre∣thren
(saith he in the first verse) my hearty de∣sire
and prayer to God for Israel is, that they may
be saved. That is, that they may come to the
knowledge of the Truth in Christ Jesus, and
by that means obtain everlasting Salvation.
And one reason why he was thus concerned
for them, he gives in the words following,

which are the words I have read unto you.
For I bear them record (saith he) that they have
a zeal of God, but not according to knowledge. It
was a great motive to him to be concern'd
for their happiness, that they were zealous, for
Religion; tho' he knew at the same time, that
the Religion they were then so zealous of, was
not the right Religion; nor did the zeal they
shewed for it, proceed from right Principles.
According to the account I have now given
of this Passage, Three things we may take no∣tice
of from it, viz.
I. The Apostles approving and tacitly com∣mending
that Zeal which his Countreymen
expressed for Religion.II. His meek and charitable behaviour to∣wards
them, even when their Zeal for Reli∣gion
was very faulty and blameable.III. His discovery of the faultiness of their
Zeal, which lay in this, that it was not according
to knowledge.These Three things I shall take for the Heads
of my following discourse upon this Text, and
shall afterwards make such Application of it,
as the Business of this Day calls for.
I. First, I desire it may be observed, That
Zeal of God in general, that is, a hearty and

passionate concernment for Religion, The Apostle
here finds no