The discovery of a proiector shewing the beginning, progresse, and end of the projector and his projects : also the projectors last will and testament, with an epitaph to his memory / by T. Brugis, Gent.


THE DISCOVERY OF A PROIECTOR. Shewing the beginning, progresse, and end of the Projector and his Projects. Also the Projectors last Will and Testament, with an Epitaph to his memory. By T. Brugis, Gent.
Experto mihi credite. [illustration]  [printer's device of Richard Hearne, featuring a fleur-de-lis (McKerrow 251)] 
LONDON, Printed by R.H. and are to be sold by Lawrence Chapman, and William Cooke, at their shops in Holborne. 1641.
TO THE COVRTEOVS READER.REader, before thou peruse my Booke give me leave to ad∣vertise thee, that in this en∣suing Discourse, I doe nei∣ther seeke to defame any person of any degree whatsoever, nor intend I to ayme at the credit of any; but if any man finde himselfe touched with any thing herein mentioned, let him make his best use of it for my part I shall onely desire to re∣veale and discover such abuses as have crept into this Kingdome, which all his Majesties Subjects with a longing de∣sire do expect a reformation of, and God be thanked have already seene some sa∣tisfactory events. Moreover, I shall
 desire thy favorable censure of this my Book, wherein thou shalt not find any refined lan∣guage, or eloquent stile (for indeed the sub∣ject deserved it not) but a plaine way fit∣ted as neere as I could for every mans un∣derstanding, else would they want the sport and content which I hope they will hereby reap, wherin they shall find nothing but what I have found my selfe by experience; And for the maintaining of the credit hereof, I must tell you that the copy lying by me this many yeeres (not with any intent ever to print it) did yeeld occasion to divers of my friends to extract copies for themselves; and moreover, the absence of it from my hands for almost two yeares hath yeelded the like opportunity to divers others unknowne to me, whereby many copies (onely altered in some few words, have been lately by earnest endevours sought to be published for their owne Workes; This is all I can desire, which if granted will strongly oblige me to conse∣crate my labours to thy content, and my selfe thy professed servant.
T.B.To the most Illustrious the lusticke Lansgrave of Latmos the man in the Moone.
TO thee (the most imaginary Sire)
Of each transcendent wit, and Engine maker,
The Ixion that first filcht Aethaeriall fire,
And every new Inventions chiefe creator,
The Moones Surveyor of her Workes, or rather
Her Instructor, and our Projectors Father.
J give thee here to know what er'st befell,
The childe whom heretofore thou didst beget,
He that by Lines and Screwes would needes compell
The Sun to mend his pace when he was set,
Vouchsafe to reade this lamentable story,
Whose wit can gallop faster then Iohn Dory.

With the next Rundlet of his highnesse Claret,
Be this convey'd, and Ile be thankfull for it.
THE PROIECTOR, and