To His Highness the Lord Protector, and the Parliament of England, &c.


To his Highness the Lord Protector, and the Parliament of England, &c.Mortal Gods,THe Eternal Being, without which nothing can be, hath made of one blood all nations of men Act. 17. 26. Men are the off spring of God, v. 29. and made in his own image, Gen. 1. 23. and therefore God said unto our fa∣thers soon after the floud, Whoso sheddeth man• blood, by man shall his blood b• sh•d, Gen. 9. 6. Yea, (except in some special cases) bloud must be shed for the bloud of a thief: for he should have lived to make full restitution, Exo. 22. 3. And therefore you ought to be more tender of a mans life, then of matter of estate: and all things what∣soever ye would that men should do to y•u, ye should do even so to them, Mat. 7. 1. And I have so much charity to∣wards you, to hope that you are not void of all huma∣nity, but have some natural aff•ction; so that if any of your children or neer relations through poverty should fall to steal, and happen to be hanged for the value of 13 d. ob (or press'd to death for not •peaking) it would touch you to the quick. And think you that other mens children and relations are not as dear and precious to them, as yours are to you? And this 〈◊〉 say, not that I allow of theft, nor do I know any of my relations guil∣ty thereof; but only shew unto you the unnatur•lness of the act and fact of putting men to death for simple Theft; that so you may be thorowly sensible and sor∣rowful, and you hearts may be made better, Eccl. 7. •. You know it's a common thing to arraign men for stealing Horses; a man is hang'd ordinarily for a Mare: for your Law values not a man more then a horse: Is not this a brutish estimation, O ye Heads of Great Britain?
You have sate now above these 40 days twice told,

and passed some Acts for transporting Corn and Cattel out of the Land, and against Charls Stuart's, &c. but (as I humbly conceive) have left undone matters of greater concernment▪ amongst which, the not curbing this o∣ver-much justice in hanging men for Stealing, is one; the not supp••ssing the Pressing of men to death for not a〈…〉ing against them•elves, is ano•her▪ And wh•t th••k 〈◊〉 of tak•ng awa• mans life upon 〈◊〉 single testi∣mo••▪ (especi•lly be••g for such small m•tte•s c•n you j•stfie the s•me before the great Law giver, who is a∣〈…〉e and to destroy? If you cannot, then be as •ilig••t to make a thorow Reformation as I have been 〈…〉e Solli•i•••ion.
W•• ye 〈◊〉 also, that it is a general grievance and open di•grace to the Nation, that the Publick debts are yet un∣paid, although you are deeply engaged by Art. 39. of this present Government? Ye know the Laws are executed with great seve•i•y against Pick-pockets, petty thieves, and silent malefactors, who are press'd to death for hol∣•ing their tongues, and are taken pro confesso: But judg in your selves, Wh•t••r are the greater sinners, those who steal for meer ••••ssity to supply their present wants, or such as defra