A short and sure guid[e] in the practice of raising and ordering of fruit-trees being the many years recreation and experience  of Francis Drope ...


Imprimatur,
P. MEWS. Vice-Cancel.OXON. Feb. 9. 1671.A SHORT and SURE GUID in the Practice Of Raising and Ordering OF Fruit-Trees. Being the many years Recreation and Experience of FRANCIS DROPE, Bachelour in Divinity, late fellow of Magdalen Colledge in Oxford.
OXFORD, Printed for Ric. Davis, An. Dom. 1672.
TO THE RIGHT HONOURABLE AND TRULY NOBLE PHILIP, LORD WENMAN, Baron of Kilmainham, Viscount Tuam.My Lord,AS a testimony of my Gratitude, for those many Favours I have received from your Lordship, I humbly present this small Book of my deceased Bro∣thers, of Planting. I confesse it un∣worthy

your Honours perusal, who are as great a Judge of Books as Men: yet I intreat your Lordships Patronage and Countenance, pre∣suming it may be serviceable for the preserving, and perfecting your new Orchard at Brackly, and so somewhat prevail towards the pro∣curing your Honours pardon, for prefixing so great a Name before so mean a Discourse. My Lord, I lay it at your Feet, and assure your Lordship, it comes from one who honours you in the most secret cor∣ners of his Heart, and who had no other way, nor method to express it but this. I know your Lordships Charity to be so diffusive, as to in∣vite

all those, who have the honour to know you, to make their applica∣tion to it: and that you are readier to afford your protection to those that want it, then they are to crave it, and will not I humbly conceive, be offended at this Dedication, knowing the weakest, and meanest ever seek their support from the Great, and Good. And that is ano∣ther Reason of the present Ambi∣tion of (My Lord)
Your Honours, most obliged, most humble and most devoted servant, Edward Drope.THE PREFACE.Friendly Reader,THe Author of these following papers, ha∣ving lately pay'd his debt to Nature, I thought it great pitty that they should die, and be buryed with him, since I am inform'd, by some of Learning and judgment, they may be useful to the publick, and this is the only aim (and not any popular applause) that produceth this

publication; for though many worthy and ingenious persons have written more largely already on this Sub∣ject, yet none (I presume) hath say'd so much, in so little a Treatise, and what he directs, is by his own Expe∣rience, which I take to be the best In∣structer. Yet it was not his study (who was by profession a Divine) but his Recreation, an inoffensive de∣light hee took in Planting; neither do I think this study so ill becoming that Function, when Solomon, that great King, and princely Divine, wrote of Trees, and Plants, from the Cedar in Lebanon, to the Hysop that springeth out of the wall; that is, from the highest and tallest Tree,

to the smallest shrub, and lowest herb. I may truly say, this our Author knew most Herbs and Flow∣ers in this Nation, yet I do not find he wrote any thing of them; but I would not ha