England's great happiness, or, A dialogue between Content and Complaint wherein is demonstrated that a great part of our complaints are causeless, and we have more wealth now, than ever we had at any time before the restauration of His Sacred Majestie / by a real and hearty lover of his king and countrey.


ENGLAND'S Great Happiness. OR, A DIALOGUE BETWEEN CONTENT and COMPLAINT.
WHEREIN Is demonstrated that a great part of our Complaints are causeless.
And we have more Wealth now, than ever we had at any time before the Re∣stauration of his sacred Majestie.
By a real and hearty Lover of his King and Countrey.
Say not thou, What is the cause that the former daies were better than these? for thou dost not enquire wisely concern∣ing this.
Eccl. 7.10.LONDON, Printed by J. M. for Edward Croft, and are to be sold at the Printing-Press in Cornhill. 1677.
Licensed,
May 14. 1677.
Roger L'Estrange.
〈1 page duplicate〉THE CONTENTS OF THIS DIALOGUE.TO export money our great advantage. p. 3.To consume Callico more profitable for us, than other Foreign Linnen. p. 4.The Norway Trade a profitable Trade. p. 5.The French Trade a profitable Trade. ibid.Gilded Leather in a short time like to be made as cheap here, as in Holland or elsewhere. p. 6.Variety of Wares for all Markets, a great advan∣tage. ibid.High living a gr•at improvement to Arts. ibid.An account of such as were great Traders for∣merly. p. 7.Invitation of Foreign Arts a great advan∣tage. p. 8.Multitudes of people an advantage. p. 9.Examples of profit by Foreign Arts. ibid.A Hearty Wish. p. 10.Enclosure its advantage. p. 11.Horticulture a great advantage. ibid.Whether lawful to enclose. p. 13.Reasons for the Act call•d Trade encourag'd. ibid.A way to enclose in spite of the Rabble. p. 15.Multitude of Traders a great advantage. p. 16.Advantages of many Traders. p. 17.A Disswasive from murmuring. p. 18.The word Impossible a great discourager of Arts. ibid.Signs of Wealth. p. 19.A Comparison. p. 20.Our present complaints. ibid.A good Resolution. p. 21.Some Scriptures against murmuring. p. 22The Author to his Book.
MY little Book, when you do look
Into the World that's curious;
You must take care, you don't ill fare
From those men that are furious

Against all things that reason brings
To contradict their humours;
And scarce are pleas'd, unless they're eas'd
By spreading forth false rumours.

But if that they ought 'gainst thee say,
And make it truth appear;
Then I'l submit and think it fit,
That you the blame should bear.

But if they will be murm'ring still,
Partic' larizing men, that idly spend,
Or fates do lend a hand to Ruine: then
'Twill be but meet Poor Robin see't,
And answer them with glee, because such fools
Are the fit tools T'employ such men as he
ENGLAND'S Great Happiness; OR A DIALOGUE BETWEEN Content and Complaint.Content.HOw do you, Mr. Complaint? Complaint. Your Servant Sir, I'm glad to see you well: What News?
Cont.Why, all the talk is of the Blazing Star, and Whale that's come to Colcheste