The possiblity of Gods forsaking a people, that have been visibly near & dear to him together, with the misery of a people thus forsaken, set forth in a sermon, preached at Weathersfield, Nov. 21, 1678. Being a day of fast and humiliation. / By Mr. Joseph Rowlandson Pastor of the church of Christ there. ; Being also his last sermon. ; [Four lines of Scripture texts]


The Possibility of Gods Forsaking a people, That have been visibly near & dear to him...Set forth in a Sermon, Preached at Weathersfield; Nov. 21. 1678.
By Mr. Joseph Rowlandson.
Cambridge: Printed by Samuel Green. 1682.
Possibility 〈…〉•••saking〈…〉 That have been visi••〈…〉 TOGET•••〈…〉With the Misery of a 〈…〉 Set forth in 〈…〉 SERM•••〈…〉 Preached at Weathersfie••〈…〉 Being a Day of FA••〈…〉 MILIAT••〈…〉
By Mr. Joseph〈…〉 Church 〈…〉
2 Chron. 15. 〈…〉with him,〈…〉 you: 〈…〉 Hosea 9. 12. 〈…〉
〈…〉 Printed by 〈…〉
To the Courteous READER, especially the Inhabitants of the Towns of Wethersfield, and Lancaster, in New-England.GOds forsaking of such as He hath been 〈◊〉 is a thing of such weight and solemnity, 〈◊〉 hath such bitter effects, that it is a meet subject, [especially in a dark and mourning day] for Mini|sters to speak to, and for People to hear of• that •e one may warn of the danger, and the other avoid 〈◊〉 Judgement. As Gods presence is the greatest glory to a People on this side Heaven, so his absence is the greatest misery on this side hell; this therefore must needs be a concerning point, to such as will concern themselves in their concernments: The ensuing Sermon will appear a solemn Word, if duely con|sidered; the subject matter is very solemn and weigh|ty, [Treating of Gods being with, or forsaking a people] the time when it was delivered, was a solemn time, (a day of FAST throughout the Colonies,) the Reverend Author that composed, and Preached it, was one solemn and serious above many others, and that which adds one great circumstance to its so|lemnity, is, in that it was the last word be spake to the

World, being but about two dayes before be left it. As it is solemn, so 'tis seasonable a•d pertinent. It is a time wherein we have given God just cause to forsake us, a time wherein God is threatning to for|sake us, A time wherein God hath in some mea|sure forsaken us already, and what can be more sea|sonable, than to shew the evils that befall a forsaken People that we may yet be awakened, and return, that the Lord do not forsake us utterly,
As for the Reverend Author, there needs no|thing to be said in his commendation, he was known amongst the Churches in this Wilderness, and known to be a workman that needed not to be ashamed; That his Name [which was sometimes precious amongst these that knew him] may not be forgot, and that being dead▪ he may yet speak to a land that have in some measure forsook their God, and are in danger of being forsaken, is the ground-work of the punish|ing this small part of his Labours, It is com|mended especially to the perusal of the Inhabitants of Lan