A sermon upon Revel. II, 11, &c. summoning the expectation of the witnesses rising and of the great concurrent works daily shewing forth themselves, and to be compleat by 1697 : together with the surprizing confirmations of the line of time and the 1260 days of years ending 1697 ... / by T. Beverley.


A SERMON Upon Revel. 11.11, &c. SUMMONING The Expectation of the Witnesses Rising AND OF THE Great Concurrent Works Daily shewing forth Themselves, and to be Compleat by 1697. TOGETHER WITH The Surprizing Confirmations of the Line of Time, and the 1260 Days of Years ending 1697. Design'd as an Encouragement of Earnest Prayer, With Assured Faith and Hope of the Blessing of God on the Arms of Protestant Princes; and par∣ticularly, of our King, and the Change of the State of the Suffering Witnesses in France.
By T. BEVERLEY.
Isa. 51.9.Awake, Awake, O Arm of the Lord.
LONDON: Printed for John Salisbury, at the Rising Sun in Cornhil, near the Royal Exchange. 1692.
A SERMON UPON THE Rising of the Witnesses; AND THE Great Works, that shall therewith shew forth Themselves, so as to be Compleated by 1697.Revel. 11.11, &c.And after three Days and an Half, the Spirit of Life from God entred into them, and they stood upon their Feet, and great Fear fell upon them that saw them; And they heard a great Voice fram Heaven, saying unto them, Come up hither. And they ascended in a Cloud, and their Enemies beheld them. In the same Hour was there a great Earth∣quake, and the Tenth part of the City fell; and in the Earthquake were slain seven thousand Names of Men; And the Remnant were affrighted, and gave Glory to the God of Heaven. The second Woe is past, &c.
IT hath pleased God, beyond all my former Thoughts on this Scripture, Providentially to lead me to such a Re∣view of it, as thereby to shew me, that the great things of this Context must be Fullfill'd before the End of the 1260 Days; If therefore the Calculation I have given, be Just
and Right, and according to Scripture, of which I have before and do now offer my Evidences from it so full, that I cannot but be Assured my self, It is so; And hope every considering Person will be also assured as that the 1260 Days shall End 97. And if so, there are so great Things to be done from this Year to that Time, that we may very well be in a conti∣nual Expectation what God will graciously please to do this Year, and every following Year; till all things are made rea∣dy for the Proclamation of his Kingdom, as in its Succession, that is immediately to ensue at the Sound of the Seventh Trum∣pet; which shall even then begin to sound, when those 1260 Days shall end.
I come therefore to the closest Consideration of this great Portion of Prophecy, I have proposed to Discourse of. And here I find six great Effects that must needs come, according to this Prophecy, before the 1260 Days are ended: Seeing then, there are but five Summers, and the sixth, wherein the Kingdom of Christ is to enter its Succession, and 1260 Days so to End