The examinacion of Master William Thorpe preste accused of heresye before Thomas Arundell, Archebishop of Ca[n]terbury, the yere of ower Lord .MCCCC. and seuen. The examinacion of the honorable knight syr Jhon Oldcastell Lorde Cobham, burnt bi the said Archebisshop, in the fyrste yere of Kynge Henry the Fyfth.


The examinaci¦on of Master William Thorpe preste accused of heresye before Thomas Arundell / Archebis∣hop of Cāturbury / the yere of ower Lorde. M.CCCC. and seuen.
¶The examinacion of the honorable knight sye Ihon̄ Oldcastell Lorde Cobham / burnt bi the said Archebisshop / in the fyrste yere of Kynge Henry the fyfth.
¶Benomore ashamed to heare it / then ye were and be / to do it.
¶Vnto the Christen Reader.GRace and peace in oure lor∣de Iesu Christe. Reade here with iudgemente goode rea∣der the examinacion of the blssed man of god / and there thou shalt caselye perceyue wherfore oure holy chirch a• the most on holy sorte of all the people wilbe cal¦led) make all their examinaciōs in darkenes / all the laye people cleane excluded from their coun¦cels. For yf their lies had ben openly confuted and also that the accused of heresye myghte as well haue ben admytted to reason their articles with councell / whether they were heresye or no as the accused of treason agenst the king / is ad¦mytted to his councell to confute his cause and articles whether they be treason or not / they shulde neuer haue murthered nor prisoned so many good christen men as they haue done. For their cloked lyes coulde neuer haue conty∣nued so long in the lighte / as they haue done in corners. They good men when they / come in the pulpet and preache agenst the treuth / crye: Yf their lernynge were goode and trew / they wold neuer go in corners / but speke it openly. Where vnto I answere that besyde that Christe and his apostles were compelled (for because of the furyousnes of their fathers the bishoppes and preastes) whiche onely that tyme also wolde

be called holy chyrche) often tymes for to walke secretly / and absent them self and geue place to their malice? yet we haue daylye examples off more then one or two / that haue not spared nor feared for to speake and also preache opnlye the trouthe whiche haue ben taken of them pryso∣ned and brent / besyde other that for feare of dea¦the haue abiured and caryed fagottes. Of whos articles and examinacion there ys no leye man that can shewe a worde. Who can tell wherfore (not many yeres paste) there we∣re seuen burnt in conuentrye on one daye? Who can tell wherfore that good preaste and holye martyr Syr Thomas hitton was brente / now thys yere / at maydstone yn Kent? I am sure no man. For this is their caste euer when they haue put to deathe or punyshed any man / after their secrete examynacyon / to slaunder hym of soche thynges as he neuer thought. As they maye do well Inough: seynge there is no man to contrarye them. Wherfore I exhorte the good brother / who soeuer thou be that redest thys treatyse / marke hit well and co