Plain and full instructions to raise all sorts of fruit-trees that  prosper in England in that method and order, that everything must be done in, to give all the advantage, may be, to every tree as it is rising from its seed, till it come to its full growth : together with all necessary directions about those several ways of making plantations, either of wall-fruit, or dwarf-trees in gardens, or large standard-trees in orchards or fields : touching which last, because it's so vast an improvement of land, all the profitable and practical ways are here directed to with all exactness : and in the last place the best directions are given for making liquors of the several sorts of fruit / by T. Langford.


PLAIN and FULL INSTRUCTIONS To raise all sorts of FRUIT-TREES That prosper in ENGLAND; In that Method and Order, that every thing must be done in, to give all the advan∣tage, may be, to every Tree as it is rising from its Seed, till it come to its full growth.
TOGETHER With all necessary directions about those seve∣ral ways of making Plantations, either of Wall-Fruit, or Dwarf-trees in Gardens, or large Standard-trees in Or∣chards or Fields.
TOUCHING Which last, because it's so vast an Improve∣ment of Land, all the profitable and practical ways are here directed to with all exactness.
AND In the last place the best directions are given for making liquors of the several sorts of Fruit.
By T. LANGFORD, Gent.
LONDON, Printed by J.M. for Rich. Chiswel at the Rose and Crown in St Paul's Church-Yard, 1681.
TO THE READER.I Would not hinder any man so long from the Book it self, as he must be in the reading this Preface, if I had nothing to say for it, but that I would not be taken notice of to break an old Custom, or that I would pre-en∣gage the Readers favour, of which I think there will be no need: Yet I would not have him come with prejudice, and therefore this little stop is given him at setting out.
If the obscurity of the Author shall frighten any Man, that takes this Book up in his hands, I scarce look he should read over the Title before be reject it; but then he must be content to be told the truth, that he doth not do well in it,
because he doth he knows not what, and may do himself a greater discourtesie than he is aware.
I think there are few Books of this kind extant, and of note, but I have read them, and been the better for it, and named some of them sometimes in what follows, and will not detract from them any further, than to say, I see no reason why for any of them, or all of them to∣gether, this may not be acceptable, but much reason why it should; and that's the chief thing I desire the Reader may understand.
I am not so fondly conceited of what I have here done, as to think there may not be some that may know as much as is here said of Planting without my telling them; but they must then know more than is to be found in. Books already; and I fan∣cy too, some (even amongst them) may meet with some things here of use, that they may never