King Iames his encomium· Or A poeme, in memorie and commendation of the high and mightie monarch Iames; King of great Britaine. France, and Ireland &c. our late soveraigne, who deceased at Theobalds. vpon Sunday the 27. of March. 1625. By Francis Hamiltoun, of Silvertown-hill


KING IAMES his Encomium OR A Poeme, in memorie and commendation of the High and mightie Monarch IAMES; King of great Britaine. France, and Ireland &c. our late Soveraigne, who de∣ceased at Theobalds. vpon Sunday the 27. of March. 1625.
By Francis Hamiltoun, of Silvertown-hill.
Rev. Chap. 14. verse 13.Then I heard a voice from Heaven, saying vnto mee, Write, Blessed are the dead, which die in the Lord from hence-foorth: Yea, sayeth the Spirit, that they may rest from their labours, and their works doe follow them.
EDINBVRGH, Printed by Iohn Wreittoun. 1626.
TO THE CHRISTIAN READER.
SON.VVHether thy chance, or choise makes thee to looke,
(Right reverend Reader) on this Poeme penn'd:
Accept my first essay; this litle booke
Despise it not: nor spare it to amend:
So shall thou thanks receive, and gaine a friend,
And for thy paines have praise, the just reward
Of such as vertue favour, and befriend
The just and good intent. Nor misregard
One litle Talent (being rightly vsed
To vertues praise) which shall not bring disgrace
To the possessour. Talents ten abused
Makes the abuser loose them, and his place.
One litle Talent with right vse I crave,
Rather then Talents ten hid vp to have.

SEVEN CROWNESON •THE Heathen Poets wh•〈…〉
(Blinded with bastard 〈…〉
Sung praise in Poems, in th•〈…〉
To such as they alledg'd ma•〈…〉
Against their foes in field: o•〈…〉
Prosperitie and peace: falsly 〈…〉
To Idols vaine, and Fortun•〈…〉
Welfare and honour, and th•〈…〉
As honey Bees, let Christia•〈…〉
The wholesome honey from 〈…〉
Nor wasp-like sucke poyson the•〈…〉
Benumde with sloath, learne their 〈…〉, or Creeds,
One God wee must adore, in perso••ree
Distinguish'd: who divided cannot bee.

SON. 2.ONE God wee must adore, in persons three,
Distinguish'd: who can never bee divid'd:
And only he through Christ ador'd must bee,
Who Heaven and Earth, and all therein doth guide.
Litle availes his gifts, where wants his grace,
His saving grace in Christ our Soules delyte:
And thats our ioy, that wee shall see his face,
When hee shall all his foes with Scepter smyte,
They shall all prove as potters shards, when hee
Shall with his Word, the sword of iustice kill,
And with his powers rodde shall crushed bee,
And fry'd in fierie flames for ever still.
VVho would enjoy Christs face must fight the field
'Gainst sinne and Satan, and must never yeeld.

SON. 3.WHo would enjoye Christs face must fight the field
'Gainst Sinne and Satan, till their life shall end.
Its horrible Apostasie to yeeld,
Great glorie through Christ Iesus to contend
Against his foes, the foes of our Salvation;
And persecuting Dragon, who was cast
From out of Heaven (as Iohn by revelation
Made knowne to Christians, many yeeres since past.)
And beaten bac