A quickening word for the hastening a sluggish soul to a seasonable answer to the divine call. Published by a poor sinner that found it such to him. : Being the last sermon preached in the First Church of Boston upon Isaiah 55. 6. / By the pastor there, on the 24th of the fifth moneth, 1670.


A Quickening WORD FOR The hastening a Sluggish Soul to a seasonable Answer to The Divine Call. Published by a poor Sinner that found it such to him.
Being the last SERMON Preached in the First Church of Boston Upon Isaiah 55. 6. By the Pastor there, on the 24th of the fifth Moneth, 1670.
CAMBRIDGE: Printed by S. G. and M. J 1670.
A Quickening Word FOR A Sluggish Soul.ISAIAH 55. 6.Seek ye the Lord while he may be found, call ye upon him while he is near.THe Doctrine that this Text of|fered to us, was this:
If in seeking the Lord we would not miss of success, we must not miss the season thereof.
We must not seek him at our own pleasure or leisure, nor in our own loytering pace, but if we would speed in seeking, we must seek with speed, and in the time of his ap|pointment, that time which he makes a season.
Reas. 1. We can never seek the Lord too soon, but we may too late.
Reas. 2. It is fit God should appoint the time of our seeking and finding, because

what he doth for us he doth freely, he gives as a Dole, and not payes as a Debt, and we receiving all of grace as Beggars, may not chuse. A rich man indeed that hath it by him, may eat when he hath a minde; but the poor man must eat when he can get it, and is glad to have his Alms at any time, the time that his good Master chuseth. And the Lord can best chuse the fittest time, be|cause of his Infinite Wisdome, which is suf|ficient to silence the prattle and exceptions of foolish man.
USE I. For Information.
1. We must therefore seek the Lord with desire, design, and hope of finding.
2. See we how cross we are to God, to set our season and convenience against Gods season; when he is at work, we are apt to put off, Acts 24. 25. He thinks another time may be better, but if you will not like of God's time, it is not like that God should accept of yours.
 3. See our need of divine Help to subdue our Understanding to his Wisdome, and our Will to his good Pleasure.
USE II. For Direction, To give Aim to know our finding time.
Rule 1. All times are not alike, indif|ferent or indefinite, and left to us to take

what time we see good. but there is a limi|tation of time to Season or Opportunity, which is as the Eye of the Needle: it is the Market, which is not every day; the Market is indeed free, without price, but not with|out care: Isa. 55. 1, 2. Hearken diligently.
Rule 2. When God is near he may be found: and God is near (1) When grace is stirring, 2 Cor. 6. 1, 2. Joh. 5. 3. and (2) When he sends his Messengers after us to call us. 2 Chron. 36. 15. then there is some compassion ready: and (3) When he toucheth us with his Rod, we may lay hold of his hand, Isa. 27. 5. (4) When he en|forceth, and gives an edge to the o