The visit to Jesus by night. An evening lecture. / By Mr. Byles. ; [Four lines from John]


An Evening-Lecture.
Mr. Byles's SERMON From JOH. III. 2. The same came to JESUS by Night.
THE Visit to JESUS by Night. AN Evening-Lecture.
By Mr. BYLES.
Joh. xx. 19.The same Day at Evening — where the Disciples were assembled—came JESUS and stood in the midst, and saith unto them, Peace be unto you.
BOSTON, Printed and Sold by ROGERS and FOWLE, at the Head of Queen-street, near the Town-House. 1741.
AN Evening-Lecture.JOHN III. 2.The same came to JESUS by Night—
THESE Words are spoken of Nico∣demus, a Man of Honour and Au∣thority among the Jews, and se∣cretly a Disciple of our Lord JESUS. The same came to JESUS by Night, to hear about his Soul, and the Mysteries of the Kingdom. 'Twas Nicodemus's Fault that he feared to profess CHRIST openly; that he chose the Darkness to approach him undiscovered: But it was his Hap∣piness that he came at all; and it was in∣finite Compassion in our Lord that he accepted the cowardly Visit, and instructed the weak, but sincere Disciple. I should
be glad if the Arguments brought by some to vindicate Nicodemus from the Imputa∣tion of Cowardize in this Visit, were of more Significance. The Words are big with Entertainment and Instruction: And from the various Hints which they afford us, I propose to give you an useful and brief Discourse.
The same came to JESUS. The DOC∣TRINE is, That for us to come to JESUS CHRIST is our Interest and our Duty.
It is our Duty. So Nicodemus was con∣vinced, when he made his serious Ap∣proach. He was convinced that he was the great Teacher come from GOD. And therefore he knew that he ought to wait upon him for Instruction and Wisdom.
And as this was the Duty of Nicodemus in his Day, so it is no less ours at this Distance. We are under the same Ob∣ligations, and our Lord JESUS is still the same Prophet and Teacher that he was then. Indeed we cannot go to CHRIST as Nicodemus did, and have the Pleasure and the sacred Curosity to hear from his Lips the divine Language. He is now gone to his Father, and is no more
visible on Earth. But yet have we his Spirit to lead us into all Truth: and they are His Instructions, which the Spirit gives us. And we are equally obliged to repair to him now for this spiritual Instruction as Nicodemus of old. Joh. xvi. 7,—14. It is expedient for you that I go awny: For if I go not away the Comforter will not come unto you; but if I depart I will send him unto you.—He shall receive of mine, and shall shew it unto you. CHRIST then speaks as much to us by his Spirit, as if we saw his Face, and heard his Voice, as they did when he was upon Earth. And we are as much obliged to attend the gentle Whispers and obey them. In every di∣vine Institution we are to seek that we may find him.
And as this is our Duty, so it is our Interest too. Nicodemus found it so when he came desirous to learn, and went home instructed, wise unto Salvation. Our Duty and our Interest are inseperably l