Anno regni Gulielmi et Mariæ regis et reginæ Angliæ, Scotiæ, Franciæ, & Hiberniæ primo. On the sixteenth day of December, anno Dom. 1689. In the first year of their Majesties reign, this act passed the royal assent. 


ANNO REGNI GULIELMI ET MARIAE, REGIS ET REGINAE Angliae, Scotiae, Franciae & Hiberniae, PRIMO.
On the Sixteenth Day of December, Anno Dom. 1689. In the First year of Their Majesties Reign, this Act Passed the Royal Assent.
 [illustration] R [illustration]  [monogram of 'W' (William) superimposed on 'M' (Mary)] RIE MEINTIENDRAY HONI SOIT QUI MAL Y PENSE [royal blazon flanked by lion and unicorn] 
Dublin: Re-Printed by Richard Wilde, and are to be Sold at his Shop in Cork-Change. 1695.
IN THE FIRST YEAR OF KING WILLIAM AND QUEEN MARYAn Act Declaring the Rights and Liberties of the Subject, and Settling the Succession of the Crown.WHEREAS the Lords Spiritual and Temporal, and Commons As∣sembled at Westminster, Lawful∣ly, Fully, and Freely Representing all the Estates of the People of this Realm, did upon the Thirteenth day of February, in the Year of our Lord One Thousand Six Hundred
Eighty Eight, Present unto Their Majesties, then called and known by the Names and Style of William and Mary, Prince and Princess of Orange, being present in their proper Per∣sons, a certain Declaration in Writing, made by the said Lords and Commons in the words following: Viz.
WHereas the Late King James the Second, by the Assistance of divers Evil Councellors, Judges and Ministers Employed by him, did endeavour to Subvert and Extirpate the Protestant Re∣ligion, and the Laws and Liberties of this Kingdom;
By Assuming and Exercising a Power of Dispensing with, and Suspending of Laws, and the Execution of Laws, without Consent of Parliament.
By Committing and Prosecuting divers Worthy Pre∣lates, for humbly Petitioning to be Excused from Con∣curring to the said Assumed Power.
By Issuing, and Causing to be Executed a Commis∣sion under the Great Seal, for Erecting a Court called, The Court of Commissioners for Ecclesiastical Causes.
By Levying Money for, and to the Use of the Crown by Pretence of Prerogative, for other Time, and in other Manner then the was same Granted by Parliament.
By Raising and Keeping a Standing Army within this Kingdom in time of Peace, without Consent of Parliament, and Quartering Souldiers contrary to Law.
By Causing good Subjects, being Protestants, to be disarmed at the same time, when Papists were both Ar∣med and Employed, contrary to Law.
By Violating the Freedom of Election of Members to serve in Parliament.
By Prosecutions in the Court of Kings Bench, for Matters and Causes cognizable only in Parliament; and by divers other Arbitrary and Illegal Courses.
And whereas of late years Partial, Corrupt, and Un∣qualified Persons, have been Returned and Served on Ju∣ries in Trials, and particularly divers. Jurors in Trials for High Treason, which were not Freeholders.
And Excessive Bail hath been required of Persons Committed in Crimin