Capt. Johnsons last farewel; who was arraigned for being assisting in the stealing a young heiress, for which he received sentance [sic] of death, and was accordingly executed at Tyburn, the 23d. of this instant December, 1690. To the tune of Russel's farewel. Licensed according to order.


Capt. Johnsons last Farewel; Who was arraigned for being assisting in the stealing a young Heiress, for which he received Sentance of Death, and was accordingly Exe∣cuted at Tyburn, the 23d. of this instant December, 1690.To the Tune of Russel's Farewel.Licensed according to Order.
〈♫〉
1.YOu noble Lords of high Degree,
that see my dismal Doom,
Have some regard to pity me,
who now, alas! am come
To dye an ignominious Death,
as well it doth appear;
While I declare with my last Breath,
the Laws are most severe.

2.In Scotland was I bred, and born
of noble Parents there;
Good Education did adorn
my Life, I do declare:
No Crime did e'er my Conscience stain,
till I adventured here;
Thus have I reason to complain
the Laws are most severe.

3.In Flanders I the French have fac'd,
likewise in Ireland,
Still eagerly pursu'd the Chace
with valiant Heart and Hand:
Why was not I in Battel slain,
rather than suffer here
A Death which Mortals doth disdain:
the Laws are most severe.

4.I did no hurt nor wrong intend,
I solemnly protest;
But meerly for to serve my Friend,
I granted his Request,
To free his Lady out of Thrall,
his Joy and only Dear;
And now my Life must pay for all,
the Laws are most severe.

5.I coming from my Native Land,
in this unhappy time,
Alas! I did not understand
the Nature of the Crime;
Therefore I soon did condescend,
as it doth well appear,
And find therein I did offend,
the Laws are most severe.

6.In the same Lodging where I lay,
and liv'd at Bed and Board,
My Landlord did my Life betray
for Fifty Pounds Reward:
Then being into Prison cast,
altho' with Conscience clear,
I was arraigned at the last,
the Laws are most severe.

7.The Lady would not hear my moan,
while dying Words I sent;
Her cruel Heart more hard than stone,
could not the least relent;
But triumph in my wretched State,
as I did often hear;
I fall here by the Hand of Fate,
the Laws are most severe.

8.VVill not my good and gracious King
be merciful to me?
Is there not in his Breast a Spring
of Princely Clemency?
No, not for me, alas! I dye,
the Hour's drawing near;
To the last Minute I shall cry
the Laws are most severe.

9.Farewel dear Country-men, said he,
and this tumultuous Noise;
My Soul will soon transported by
to more Coelestial Joys;
Tho' in the Blossom of my Youth,
pale Death I do not fear;
For to the last I'll speak the Truth,
the Laws are most severe.

10.Alas! I have not long to live,
and therefore now, said he,
All that have wrong'd me I forgive,
as God shall pardon me;
My Landlord, and his subtle VVife,
I do forgive them here:
Farewell this transitory Life;
the Laws are most severe.
Printed for Charles Bates, at the Bible and Sun in Pye-corner.