Richard Baxters answer to Dr. Edward Stillingfleet's charge of separation containing, I. some queries necessary for the understanding of his accusation, II. a reply to his letter which denyeth a solution, III. an answer to his printed sermon : humbly tendred, I. to himself, II. to the Right Honourable the Lord Mayor and the court of aldermen, III. to the readers of his accusation, the forum where we are accused.


Richard Baxters
ANSWER
TO Dr EDWARD STILLINGFLEET's
CHARGE of SEPARATION:
Containing,
I. Some Queries necessary for the understanding of his
Accusation.II. A Reply to his Letter which denyeth a Solution.III. An Answer to his Printed Sermon.
Humbly tendred, I. To Himself; II. To the Right Honou∣rable
the Lord Mayor and the Court of Aldermen, III. To
the Readers of his Accusation: the Forum where we are
Accused.
Acts 15. 28. It seemed good to the Holy Ghost and to us to lay upon you no
greater burden then these necessary things. Rom. 14. 1, 17, 18. Him
that is weak in the Faith receive, but not to doubtful Disputations. For
the Kingdom of God is not meat and drink, but righteousness and peace
and joy in the Holy Ghost. For he that in these things serveth Christ, is
acceptable to God, and approved of men.Phil. 3. 16. Nevertheless, whereto we have already attained, let us walk
by the same Rule, let us mind the same things.—15. If in any thing ye
be otherwise minded, God shall reveal even this unto you.LONDON, Printed for Nevil Simmons, at the Three Cocks at the
West-end of S. Paul's, and Thomas Simmons at the Prince's
Arms in Ludgate-street, MDCLXXX.
THE
PREFACE.Readers,1. IF you would be truly informed of the Case of the Nonconfor∣mists,
and the meaning of this Defence, you must know
1. That the meer Nonconformists of this age take not up their
Judgment in trust from any party of men, and therefore take not
themselves obliged to be for or against any thing, because men
were so that were called Nonconformist sheretofore: As the Scri∣pture
is their Rule and objective Religion, so they reverence the
judgment of the Primitive Church above the judgment of any par∣ty;
And indeed are so far against Sects and Parties as such,
as that their judgment is that the Church will never be well re∣stored
to desireable Concord, till our Vnion be Catholick, upon the
terms that Christ appointed and which all good Christians have
agreed in, and may agree in.
2. That what the meer Nonconformists of this age desired for
Concord and Reformation, as to the old Liturgy and Conformity,
is best known by their common Proposals 1660, all the Ministers
of London being by Mr. Calamy, Mr. Ash and Dr. Reynolds,
invited to Sion-Colledg freely to give their judgments: who of∣fered
nothing for Church-Government but Bishop Usher's Primi∣tive
form, and nothing for Worship but the Reforming of the Li∣turgy,
and the free use of additional formes: Their exceptions
against passages in the Liturgy being not thought absolutely neces∣sary
to Communion. And it must be remembred that th