Articles of accusation and impeachment of the House of Commons, and all the Commons of England against VVilliam Pierce Doctor of Divinitie and Bishop of Bath and Wells.: 


ARTICLES OF ACCVSATION AND IMPEACHMENT Of the House of Commons,
and all the Commons of ENGLAND AGAINST VVilliam Pierce Doctor of
Divinitie and Bishop of Bath and Wells.
London, Printed for George Thomlinson, and are
to be sold in the Old-Baily. 1642.
Articles of Accusation and impeachment by the Comons House
of Parliament against Wil∣liam Pierce, Doctor of Divinity,
and Bishop of Bath and Wells.1.THat hee hath by his owne arbitrary power against Law
since he was Bishop of Bath and wells (being about ten yeares space) of
purpose to keepe the peo∣ple in ignorance, and hinder the Salvation of their
Soules which he should promote, suppressed all Le∣ctures within his
Diocesse, both in Market Townes and elsewhere, aswell those that the
Ministers kept in their severall cures, as others that were maintained by
severall yearely stipends (given by the founders) our of their piety and
devotion, for such goodnesse or by the voluntary assistance of
neighbour Ministers; some of which 
 Lectures had continued
for 50.40.30. yeares, without interruption, and where countenanced by his
predecessors, who used to preach at some of them in their turnes.
2. That in stead of incouraging he hath suspended,
excommunica∣ted and otherwise vexed the said Lectures; glorying in this
so doing and thanking God that he had not a Lecture left in all his
Diocesse; the very name whereof he sa•d he disliked, and affirmed unto Master
Cun∣nant a Minister, who desired a continuance of a Lecture, that hee
would not leave one within his Diocesse; the B•shop alleadging, that though there was neede of
Preaching in the infancy of the Church of the Apo∣stles time, yet now their
was no such neede; and thereupon required the said Minister upon his
Canonicall obedience, not to Preach: and in like ma•ner he dealt with many other godly Ministers within his
Diocesse. And in par•icular he
suspended Mastere Devenish the Minister of
Bridge∣water, for preaching t•e Lecture in his owne Church on the market day there, (which Lecture
had continued from Queene Elizabeths time till then;) and refused to
absolve him, till he had promised never to preach it more; upon which
promise, the said Bishop absolved him with this admonition of our
Saviour, most prophanely applyed,Goe thy way sin no more, least a worse thing happen to
thee. And not content to put downe Lectures in his own Diocesse, he
hath indeavored the suppression of them in others by conventing some
ministers of his Diocesse before him, as namely one Master
Cunnant and Master Stickland) and threat∣ning to
suspend them for preaching their turnes at Lectures in other Di∣ocesses
neere them.
3. That in opposition to Preaching, and the Sirituall cood
of the peo∣ples Soules, he hath most impiously, and against
Law put downe all af∣ternoone Sermons on the Lords day, throughout his
Dioce