The character of a turbulent, pragmatical Jesuit and factious Romish priest


THE
CHARACTER
OF
A Turbulent, Pragmatical
JESUIT
AND
FACTIOUS
Romish Priest.
Licensed, October 15. 1678.
LONDON▪
Printed for Langley Curtis, in Goat-Court
on Ludgate-hill. 1678.
The Character of a Turbu∣lent
Pragmatical Jesuite.A Turbulent Pragmatical JESUITE, is
the Bell-weather of the Roman Shep∣herds
Flock; a most trusty Janizary
to the Triple-Crown. A zealous
Hector for Popery, that wherever
he comes, plays the Devil for Gods-sake. An Eccle∣siastical
Granadier to scatter the Wild•fire of Con∣tention;
or, a Religious Flambeau to put King∣domes
into a Combustion; so through-pac'd a Ca∣tholick,
that he has left off to be a Christian,
and instead of the Evangelical Duties, Peace,
Obedience, and Love, recommends Rebellion, Trea∣son
and Murder, as the best expedients to promote
Holy Church. The distinguishing Badge of other
Papists is Superstition, but of him Sedition and
Subtlety, not Ignorance the Mother of his Devotion.
He usurps the Title of JESUITE, just as their
Popes are observed to have chosen Sirnames, ex∣actly
contrary to their Tempers; as, the most
Hatchet-fac'd Formosus, the most prophane
Pius, the most cruel Clemens, &c. For certainly,
never did any more interfere with the steps of the
Blessed Jesus, than those that blasphemously call
themselves his Companions or SOCIETY. He
disclaimed his Kingdome to be of this World; but

their whole endeavors aim no farther. Riches,
Dominion, Pomp and Glory, are the Butts they
shoot at; and if ever they appear Heavenly, by
tampering with Affairs of State, they mix Heaven
and Earth together, to bring all into Confusion.
Let them magnifie the Travels of their Saint Xa∣verius,
and boast the Multitude of Heathens they
have converted; look narrowly into that intrigue,
and you'll find it only an Hucksterly Charity of
mercenary Pedlars, rather than a free offer of
glad tidings. They did but Traffick to the Indies,
to Barter Religion for Gold; never car'd for
Preaching to Beggarly Nations, but always car∣ried
the sound of Christianity to Regions that had
rich Mines or precious Quarries, to make ad∣vantagious
Returns. Not to mention their Cruel∣ties,
in Baptizing far greater numbers in Blood
than Water, and making the Gospel odious to those
dark Souls, by their perfidious and Traiterous
Practises; for which, the King of Japan long ago,
and the Emperor of China since, banisht them
their Territories, choosing rather to relapse into
honest Paganism, than entertain Truth sullied by
such Knavish Impostors.
He owes his Original to Ignatius Loyala a Spa∣nish
Souldier, about the year 1540. and though
found out long since the invention of the Cannon,
has not done less mischief than that Butchering
Engine. Luther had now broke the Ice, and the
Dawn of reviv'd Learning having open'd mens
Eyes to see through the grosser Cheats of Ignorant

Monks; the Pope had no other play, but to
cherish this Society, who having devoted them∣selves
by a parti