The first fruits of reason, or, A discourse shewing the necessity of applying our selves betimes to the serious practice of religion by Anthony Horneck ...


Imprimatur.
C. Alston R. P. D. Hen. Episc. Lond. à sacris Domesticis.THE First Fruits OF REASON: OR, A DISCOURSE Shewing The Necessity of applying our selves betimes to the serious Practice of Religion.
By Anthony Horneck D. D. Preacher at the Savoy.
LONDON: Printed by F. Collins, for D. Brown at the Black Swan and Bible without Temple-bar; and are to be sold by John Weld at the Crown between the Temple-gates in Fleet-street. 1686.
THE PREFACE TO THE READER.THE following Discourse was occasioned by a young Man's being unfortunately kill'd in Bartholomew Fair, whose Friends, led partly by natural Af∣fection, partly by

love to the young Mans Vertues, were pleas'd to desire me to preach a Sermon at his Funeral, and because they would thereby be servicea∣ble to the living, and more especially to men of the same age with the Deceased, entreated me to pitch upon the Text which appears in the front of the ensuing

Treatise. Having gratified their desire in that particular, they gave me some Motives and Argu∣ments to publish it, which I could not well resist. But the Discourse, as it was deliver'd at St. Sepul∣chres Church on the 20 of September being too short to make a∣ny thing like a Book of it, I resolved upon

second thoughts to enlarge it, and with these enlargements & additions it comes now abroad; though in an age so fertile of excellent Sermons, I might be discoura∣ged from adding any of mine own, yet since every man in his station is bound to contribute to the common Interest of Religion; having

this opportunity, I was willing to em∣brace it, because it's possible, that some or other who lights up∣on these Papers, may think of the Contents, and by the assistance of the divine Spirit, be perswaded early to consecrate himself to unfeigned and impartial Devotion. The great debau∣chery and looseness

of the Youth of this Age, is enough to oblige us, and a suf∣ficient call to do all we can to stem the floud of Impiety, which rages so much in the younger sort, and proves too of∣ten the occasion both of their tem∣poral and eternal ru∣ine. All I shall add is this, to entreat the Reader to become a

Supplicant with me at the Throne of Grace, that both this and other mens en∣deavors of this kind, may prove ef∣fectual to recal both young and old from the errours of their ways, and that God (as it is our Li∣turgy) would shortly accomplish the number of his Elect, that we with all those who are depar∣ted

in the true Faith may have our perfect consum∣mation and bliss in his Eternal and Everlasting Glory.
THE First Fruits of Reason.ECCLES. 12.1.Remember now thy Creator in the days of thy youth.
THis Book of Ecclesiastes is generally looked upon as Solomon's recantation Ser∣mon, in which he renounces his former Follies, and having seen the vanity of the world, and the pleasures of it, like a man come t