moved the appointment of a Select Committee to take into consideration the state of the law affecting Parochial Assessments. 
He had, on more than one occasion, endeavoured to impress upon the minds of their Lordships the immense importance of taking this subject into their serious consideration, in order that some alterations might be made in the present unsatisfactory state of the law.
He felt certain that the longer such an inquiry was deferred, the more difficult it would be to legislate upon the matter.
He deprecated the practice of passing an annual Bill for the purpose of exempting certain property from its operation.
No 2 greater evil can exist than to have the law on such a subject temporary and uncertain, and it is most desirable now to endeavour to render it positive and permanent.
The burthen in 1848 was 28 per cent on the revenue of the assessable property, at the then value thereof.
In 1850 that property is less valuable, say, for example, as perhaps an extreme case, that land is 25 per cent less valuable, then the burthen becomes 28 per 75 l .
, instead of 28 per 100 .
Moreover, there exists an increasing burthen on parishes already over burthened, by the addition of the rate levied for the common fund, which is raised on the average system, and not on the rateable value of the property of the union; and that plan requires to be considered as soon as an equitable mode of assessing the whole property can be devised.
The foundation required is an honest parochial assessment.
His object was to have an uniformity of rating on all the property of the country, and, with that view, every exemption should be removed.
One of the greatest burdens on land was the law of settlement;
3 and that question could not be dealt with until the whole system of rating had been altered and amended.
That burthen has been much increased by the Act called the Non-removal Act, which is a great boon given to the estates in close parishes, where the cottages have been destroyed at the expense of the parishes, which are commonly called open parishes.
In some cases, the latter pay 33 per cent on their assessable value, while the former pay only 1 or 2 per cent.
As a modern law has added to the existing evil, that should be remedied by an extension of the area of contribution, so that gradually the evil may be corrected.
He trusted that, if the Committee should be appointed, they would take into consideration the mode in which railways should be rated.
The question of stock in trade ought to be carefully sifted.
The mode of assessing the tithe property requires to be carefully investigated, not so much with a view to alter the law as to enforce it; for the grievance is very manifest.
As the rate is now made, the titheowner is rated to the full value, which is known to all the world; while the occupier of lands and houses is rated at an estimated value, generally below the value.
Another topic would be, the policy of forming one rate and assessment for all the loc