An ordinance of the Lords and Commons assembled in Parliament, for the maintaining of the forces of the seven associated counties, under the command of Edward Earl of Manchester. By a weekly payment upon the said associated counties; to begin the first day of September, and to continue for foure moneths next ensuing. : Septemb. 26. 1644. / Ordered by the Commons in Parliament, that this ordinance be forthwith printed & published. ; H. Elsynge, cler. Parl. D. Com.


AN ORDINANCE OF THE Lords and Commons Assembled in PARLIAMENT, For the maintaining of the Forces of the seven associated Counties un∣der the Command of EDWARD Earl of MANCHESTER.
By a Weekly payment upon the said associated Coun∣ties; to begin the first day of September, and to continue for foure Moneths next ensuing.
Septemb. 26. 1644.ORdered by the Commons in Parliament, That this Ordinance be forthwith printed & published.
H. Elsynge, Cler. Parl. D. Com.
LONDON: Printed for Edward Husbands.
26 September, 1644.WHereas the Counties of Norfolk, Suffolk, Essex, Lincoln, and other Counties with them Associated, out of their loyall respect to His Majestie, their pious disposition to the peace and happinesse of this Kingdome; in obedi∣ence to the Orders of Parliament, have rai∣sed and maintained to the number of Four∣teen thousand Horse, Foot, and Dragoones, or thereabouts, and with them have done many great services against the Common Enemie, tending much to the safetie of the Kingdome; And have also bought many Armes and Ammunition, and must buy more, whereby to furnish themselves with a traine of Artillerie; and have been, and must be at great charges in maintaining and recruiting the said Forces, and in kee∣ping severall Garrisons, making and ere∣cting of Fortifications, Magazines, Courts of Guards, and other things requisite and necessary for the defence and safetie of the said association against the incursions of the Enemie: By all which meanes the said As∣sociation is become much indebted, and without the speedy raising of large and con∣siderable
 sums of money proportionable to their vast expences, cannot long subsist in a condition to keep themselves from ruine, and to advance the publique safetie. It is thereupon Ordained by the Lords & Com∣mons in Parliament assembled, and by au∣thoritie of the same, That for the intents & purposes aforesaid, the severall weekly sums of money hereafter in this Ordinance men∣tioned, shall be charged, rated, taxed and le∣vied upon the severall Counties, according to the proportions herein expressed; The same to be paid in weekly to the severall Col∣lectors, & by them to the Treasurer or Trea∣surers appointed by this Ordinance for the receiving hereof. That is to say,
Vpon the County of Essex, the weekly sum of one thousand sixe hundred eighty seven pounds ten shillings.
Vpon the County of Suffolk, the weekly sum of one thousand eight hundred seventy five pounds.
Vpon the County of Norfolk and City of Norwich, the weekly sum of one thousand eight