A warning to the flocks against wolves in sheeps cloathing. Or, A faithful advice, from several ministers of the Gospel, in and near Boston, unto the churches of New-England, relating to the dangers that may arise from impostors, pretending to be ministers. : With a brief history of some impostors, remarkably and seasonably detected written, by one of the ministers in Boston, to assert that advice, and prevent future mischiefs. : [Five lines of Scripture texts]


A Warning to the FLOCKS Against WOLVES in Sheeps-Cloathing. OR, A Faithful ADVICE, from several MINISTERS of the Gospel, in and near Boston, unto the Churches of New-England, relating to the Dangers that may arise from Impostors, Pretending to be Ministers.
WITH A Brief HISTORY of some Impostors, Remarkably and Seasonably detected; Written, by One of the Ministers in Boston, to assert that Advice, and prevent future Mischiefs.
Matth. 7.15.Beware of False Prophets, which come to you in Sheeps Cloathing, but inwardly they are Ravening Wolves.
Rev. 2.2.Thou hast Tried them, which say they are Apostles, and are not, and hast found them Lyars.
Boston, Printed for the Booksellers. 1700.
A Faithful Advice, FROM Several MINISTERS of the Gospel, in and near Boston, unto the Churches of New-England; relating to the Dangers that may arise from Impostors, pretending to be Ministers.IT is not without some Concern upon our Minds, that in the late Writings of our Presbyterian Bretheren in England, we find awful Complaints, about Bold Intruders into the Work of the Ministry, & the swarming of that Vermine, with an hide|ous Noise, not in Corners and Chambers, but in the very Pulpits; likely to prove an E|gyptian plague;
upon which they add,
If these Illiterate Usurpers are not speedily and effectually discountenanced by Mini|sters and People too, they who are alrea|dy the Blemish of Nonconformity, will quick|ly prove the total Ruine of it.
But it satis|fied us more than a little, to hear of their care that the Confusions thus complained, may be prevented, by a Vote of this Impor|tance,

That they would Employ none to Preach in any of their Pulpits, but such as ei|ther arrived unto them with credible Testimo|nials, or submitted themselves unto a solemn Trial of their Qualifications for the Evange|lical Ministry. Our Congregational Bretheren in England, being alarumed with a clamour of the Dangers hence arising to the Interests of our Holy Religion, we do with a like satisfaction find, they have lately published a Declaration, wherein, signifying,
That inas|much as they count none meet to dispense the Oracles of God unto others, who are not themselves Qualified for Communion in all Ordinances, their joining themselves to a particular Church of Christ, would be a good Expedient to prevent Ignorant and Rash Intruders into the Ministry; seeing then, it would be the Duty of Particular Churches and their Officers, to take special care, that none of their Communion, who are not Qualified, may enter on that Work;