Rash oaths unwarrantable: and the breaking of them as inexcusable. Or, A discourse, shewing, that the two Houses of Parliament had little ground to make those oaths they have made,:  or lesse ground to take, or presse the taking of them, being it is easie to be apprehended, they never intended to keep them, but onely made them for snares, and cloaks for knavery, as it is clearly evinced by their constant arbitrary and tyranicall practices, no justice nor right being to be found amongst them; by meanes of which they have declaratorily, and visibly lost the very soule and essence of true magistracy, (which is, the doing of justice, judgement, equity ... In which is also a true and just declaration of the unspeakable evill of the delay of justice, and the extraordinary sufferings of Lievtenant Colonell John Lilburne, very much occasioned by M. Henry Martins unfriendly and unjust dealing with him, in not making his report to the House. All which with divers other things of very high concernment, are declared in the following discourse, being an epistle, / written by Lievtenant-Colonell John Lilburne, prerogative prisoner in the Tower of London, to Colonell Henry Marten, a member of the House of Commons of England ... May 1647.


Rash Oaths unwarrantable: And the breaking of them as
inexcusable. Or, A DISCOURSE, shewing, that the two Houses of Parliament
had little ground to make those Oaths they have made, or lesse ground to
take, or presse the taking of them, being it is easie to be apprehen∣ded,
they never intended to keep them, but onely made them for snares, and cloaks
for knavery, as is clearly evinced by their constant arbitrary and
tyranni∣call practices, no justice nor right being to be found amongst
them; by meanes of which they have declaratorily, and visibly lost the very
soule and essence of true Magistracy, (which is, the doing of
justice, judgment, equity and right) and are become a dead carkasse.
In which is also a true and just DECLARATION of the unspeak∣able evill of
the delay of justice, and the extraordinary sufferings of Lievtenant
Colonell John Lilburne, very much occasioned by M. Henry
Martins unfriendly and unjust dealing with him, in not making his Report
to the House. All which with divers other things of very high concernment,
are declared in the follow∣ing discourse, being an Epistle written by
Lievtenant-Colonell John Lilburne, Prerogative-prisoner in the Tower
of London, to Colonell Henry Marten, a Member of the House
of Commons, and Chaire-man to the Committee for consideration of the
Liberties of the Commons of England. May 1647.
Eccles. 5.2.4.Be not rash with thy mouth, and let not thy heart be hasty to
utter any thing before God; but when thou vowest a vow unto God, deferre not
to pay it: for he hath no pleasure in fooles: pay that which thou hast
vowed
Numb. 30.2.If a •an vow a vow
unto the Lord, or sweare an oath to hind his soule with a bond, hee shall
not breake his word, he shall do according to all that proceede