Fons perennis, a poem on the excellent and useful invention of making sea-water fresh by Edm. Arwaker.


Licensed,
Ian. 23. 1685.Rob. Midgley.A
POEM
ON THE
Excellent and Useful
INVENTION
OF
Making SEA-WATER Fresh.
WHEN first on Man his Maker did bestow
The Empire of his new-rais'd World be∣low,
Amidst his Pow'r the Monarch still did want
A full Enjoyment of the boundless Grant;
For though the Earth did his Command obey,
He was but tit'lar Sov'reign o'r the Sea.
The Rebel-Waves despis'd his useless Pow'r,
And kept within themselves their wondrous Store,
And from the Mystic Treasure which they hid,
On pain of Death, did all his Search forbid.
Nor did they onely thus usurp the Deep,
And from his watry Realm their Sov'reign keep;
But ev'n its firmer Empire they besiege,
And turn its Homage from its Native Liege;
Who, crowded in a narrow Spot of Ground,
Saw his bold Rebels all the rest surround.
While thus by his insulting Slaves confin'd,
For Want of Room, the World's great Monarch pin'd;
Nor cou'd he safe in his Inclosure reign,
Ev'n that at last th' incroaching Billows gain,
Till bounteous Heav'n did kindly interpose,
And stop'd the Course of his invading Foes;
The Pow'r first giv'n to Man it did renew,
Taught him to conquer, and to rule them too;
Safe o'r his vanquish'd Slaves the Victor rides,
Plows their curl'd Backs, and wounds their foaming Sides.
Amaz'd to find how vainly they engage,
The proud Usurpers calmly quit their Rage,
The Billows shrink beneath their Conqu'ror's Pow'r,
And stoop to Burthens which they scorn'd before,
Now ev'ry Day his Conquest Man improves,
And unoppos'd o'r the wide Ocean moves;
Now unconfin'd he visits e'ry Shore,
And takes from each its Tributary Store;
Rips up the Bowels of the pregnant Earth,
And crowds his Coffers with the dazling Birth▪
While on the Waves, safe as at Land, he dwells,
Born o'r their Backs in floating Cittadels;
Nor on their Surface onely pleas'd to keep,
He dives to all the Secrets of the Deep,
And, with the shining Tribute of its Womb,
Returns at once adorn'd and laden home.

Happy the People of that Pow'rful Land,
That o'r the Watry Realm has chief Command;
That Land whose Sailing Castles raise its Name,
Make it the Seat of Wealth, and Theme of Fame;
To which all other Vent'rers on the Sea,
The Homage of their falling Top-Sails pay.
On happy Britain! If the Bliss it knew,
Bless'd in a Fleet, and a Commander too;
Who heretofore, expos'd in thy Defence,
Taught thee a Pattern of Obedience;
Who saw the swelling Waves, as void of Fear
As if He went to take his Pastime there.
Whilst such concurrent Means encrease thy Store,
Ingratitude alone can make thee Poor;
For to thy Coasts, as to their Center, flote
The Spoils of distant Climes, and Worlds remote.
Whatever Treasure either India knows,
United here, in vast Abundance flows;
All that can tend to Profit or Delight,
Oblige the Sense, or please the Appetite;
All that which Mortals cover, or revere,
Becomes Familiar, as if Native here.

Nor yet, lik