A sermon preach'd at the anniversary meeting of the sons of clergy-men in the church of S. Mary-Le-Bow, on Thursday, Decemb. 3, 1696 by Z. Isham ...


To my Honoured Friends, and Brethren, the Stewards of the late Meeting of Clergy-Mens Sons.
Mr. Edward Tenison,Mr. Thomas Breamer,Mr. Nudigate Owsley,Mr. Thomas Pindar,Mr. Jer. Peirce,Mr. Edward Hinton,Mr. Martin Carter,Mr. Benjamin HowelMr. Peter Crouch,Mr. William Staresmore,Mr. Samuel Turner,Mr. Nath. Green.Honour'd Brethren,I Am sensible, I have not done Justice to the Good Samaritan: But what hath been wanting to his Chara∣cter from the Pulpit, will, I hope, be made up by the Examples of those that
heard it. Towards me, I confess, your Compassion had been greater, if you had passed by this mean Per∣formance, and only wish'd me a better Talent: But since you have taken it up, and are willing it should live, you have made your selves responsible for it; and in your hands I respectfully leave it, in Obedience to your Commands, and am,
SIRS, Your most humble Servant, and Affectionate Brother, Z. ISHAM.LUKE X. 37.— Then said Jesus unto him, Go, and do thou likewise.
I. AMongst the several Calumnies mali∣liciously cast upon the Primitive Christians, and contriv'd by the Accuser of the Brethren, to prevent our Religion from taking root in the World; the most perverse Imputation was that which was grounded upon their mutual Fraternity, and eminent Acts of Charity: They revile us, (saith a very ancient Father) because we call our selves Brethren to one another; and deride us for lo∣ving one another so well, and being ready to lay down our lives for one another: And surely it was a most envenom'd rancour, that could turn the highest Vertue into a matter of Re∣proach. For nothing could redound more to the Honour of the Church, than to set a Pattern to Mankind of Beneficence, and Kind∣ness, and unspotted Affection; and that the
great Body of Christians was one Corporation for Charity, and the Widows, and Orphans were the Sisters, and Children of the whole Com∣munity: And S.Basil tells us, It was the an∣cient Glory of the Church, That the Christians who travell'd from one end of the World to the other, met every where with Fathers and Bre∣thren. Accordingly it was this divine Spi∣rit of Love, and Mercy, animating the Church, that chiefly established our holy Religion, and surmounted the Persecutions against it: And this was so remarkable, thatJulian the Apo∣state thought to restore Paganism, by employ∣ing the indulgent Methods of Christianity; and to supplant our Faith, by putting on the Disguise of our Charity. I wish we had not in the Christian World, a more thriving Instance of supporting a false Worship by charitable Foun∣dations: But we ought not to be offended with these, for the Blemishes of the other; nor to despise an Alms, because the hand is not clean that gives it: And if Deeds of Mercy can be made the Props of Superstition, they will not be less powerful in upholding Truth. We do not indeed ma