Bee thankfull London and her sisters; or, A sermon of thankfulnesse setting downe the kindnesse of God to vs ... by Robert Abbott ...


Bee Thankfull LONDON AND HER SISTERS; OR, A SERMON of Thankfulnesse: Setting downe the kindnesse of God to vs, the dutie of Thankfulnesse, the way to it, and the practise of it. Applyed in particular to these times:
By ROBERT ABBOTT Preacher of Gods Word at Cranebrooke in KENT.
PSAL. 50. 15.Call vpon mee in the day of trouble, so will I de∣liuer thee, and thou shalt glorifie mee. [illustration] 
LONDON, Printed for Philemon Stephens and Christopher Meredith, and are to be sold at their shop at the golden Lyon in Pauls Church-yard, 1626.
TO THE RIGHT Worshipfull, worshipfull, and dearely beloued, his friends, kindred, and acquaintance within the Citie of LONDON, ROBERT ABBOTT wisheth due Thank∣fulnesse to God for his vnspeakable MERCIES.THough I liue a farre off from you, yet God knowes that I haue not beene vnmindfull of you in my daily prayers to God, which was the best good which I could doe vnto you. And when I heard that God did beginne to shine in loue vpon the City againe, God knowes that I was not vnmindefull to bee thankfull to him that is the sole Author of it. I thought not that e∣nough: therefore as before I had spent many dayes in fasting, and prayer, for our selues in body; so did I re∣solue
 (hauing that blessed liberty) to spende one day in fasting, prayer, and thanksgiuing for you: what good it wrought vpon my owne people and those of your body who heard me, I am not worthy to know: but what good I aymed at my conscience is priuy to, & what my desire is to do more. I consider how louingly I haue beene in∣tertained of many of you when I was assistant to a Reue∣rend Diuine amongst you, who is now with God. I con∣sider that I haue many brethren, sisters, and kins-folke, who haue fellowship with you, & whose soules I tenderly affect. In which respects though (as it is wittily said) some more Learned, and godly men are Fathers, Nur∣ses and murtherers to their owne Children, in beget∣ting, kissing, and burying the fruits of their owne braines, yet am I still aduenturous to shew others what God hath giuen me (vnworthy wretch) to bring forth, and to say vnto you; Behold I and my child. I haue not trimmed it with ornaments and laces of Aegypt, nor sweetned it with the Frankincense and myrrhe of the Christian Synagouge: but as God hath sent it with the lawe of God written in the fore-head, hands, feete and heart of it, so send I it vnto you, desiring God to make this seruice acceptable and profitable vnto you: And so I rest,
Yours to be vsed in the Lord, ROBERT ABBOTT.From my Studie this fifteenth of Nouember 1625.Be thankefull London: OR, A SERMON, Setting downe the duty of thank∣fulnesse, the way to it, and the practise of it, preached vponPSAL. 31. 21.Blessed be the Lord, for hee hath shewed his maruel∣lous kindnesse towards me in a strong City.WHEN God purposeth to plague a people, who haue not beene wi