The wise ruler a loyal subject. A sermon preached in the audience of the General Assembly of the colony of Connecticut, on the day of their anniversary election in Hartford, May 12th, 1748. / By Nathanael Eells, M.A. Pastor of a Church in Stonington. ; [Six lines of Scripture texts] ; Some things omitted in the delivery, now inserted in their proper places.


Mr. Eells's Election Sermon,
May 12. 1748.
The wise Ruler a loyal Subject.
A SERMON Preached in the Audience OF THE General Assembly OF THE Colony of Connecticut, On the Day of their Anniversary ELECTION in Hartford, MAY 12th, 1748.
By Nathanael Eells, M. A. Pastor of a Church in Stonington.
Psal. xcvii. 7.
—Worship him all ye Gods.Heb. i. 6.
And again, when he bringeth in the First-begotten into the world, he saith; And let all the Angels of GOD worship him.Deut. iv. 6.
—For this is your Wisdom and your Understanding.Some things omitted in the Delivery, now in|serted in their proper places.
N. LONDON, Printed and Sold by TIMOTHY GREEN, Printer to the GOVERNOUR & COMPANY, 1748
At a GENERAL ASSEMBLY Held at Hartfordon the second Thursday of MAY, Anno Domini. 1748.Ordered,
THat Hezekiah Huntington Esq; and Colonel John Williams return the Thanks of this Assem|bly to the Reverend Mr. Natha|nael Eells, for his Sermon deli|vered before them on the 12th Day of May Instant, and desire a Copy thereof that it may be printed.
George Wyllys Secr.An Election SERMON.PSALM II. 10, 12.Be wise now therefore, O ye Kings: be instructed, ye Judges of the Earth. Kiss the Son—._TIS easie and useful to observe how the Word of God frequently re|presents the Ruler of his People in a twofold Light: In the One, we behold him raised up by di|vine Appointment & Providence to Rule and Judge the People; In the other, we view him on a Level with every Subject to be ruled and judged by the same Laws and Lord. With relation to the former of these Capacities, we have had frequent Discourses upon these Occa|sions, have seen the civil Ruler fixed in his Post, cloathed with Authority from the great Gover|nour of the World, made the Minister of his Providence, A Revenger to execute Wrath upon him that doth evil, Rom. 1. 3. 4. and a Protector to defend him that doth well. And have heard the People put in mind to be subject to Principa|lities and Powers, to obey Magistrates, Tit. 3. 1. not only for wrath, but also for Conscience sake.
It mayn't then be unseasonable to treat of civil Rulers in their subjected Capacity, as under the Law to Christ, and in Conformity to the in|spired Preacher in our Text, declare their Ob|ligations to Zion's King, who demands their Submission and Obedience.
In this Psalm the Spirit of Prophesy testifies and declares the mighty opposition that would be made to the Redeemer's Kingdom, the Victories and triumphs of his Grace, and the extent of his Empire notwithstanding, that he should have the Heathen for an Inheritance, and the uttermost parts of th• Earth for a Possession, ver. 8. And that his Oppose•