A general epistle to all the saints being a visitation of the Fathers love unto the whole flock of God ... : to be read in all the assemblies, of them, that meet together to worship the Father in the spirit and truth ... / E.B.


A General Epistle TO ALL THE SAINTS; BEING A VISITATION OF THE Fathers Love, Unto the whole Flock of God; who are called and gathered into the Spiritual King∣dom of Righteousness and Peace; To be Read in all the Assemblies, of them, that meet together to Worship the Father in the Spirit and Truth, in the si∣lence of all flesh.
E. B.
LONDON, Printed for Robert Wilson, at the Sign of the Black∣spread-Eagle and Wind-Mill in Martins l'Grand, 1660.
〈3 pages missing〉live unto God, in all that which is answerable unto him; and your words and works will be accepted of him, and well-pleasing to him, even because it is him that worketh in you to will and to do all good things, and he alone exalted in you, and you subjected, and the Maker is be∣come the Husband, and you married unto him; and he lives in Power, and Rule, and Command, and you live in subjection unto him, and in fulfilling his Will in what he guideth in by his Holy Spirit; And this life is very pretious.
Oh Friends! live in it, and dwell in it alwayes, and then your Ioy and Peace will be with you over all this world, and you will be Comforted, when Fear and Ter∣rour comes upon all men; for the Lord God whom we serve and worspip in the Spirit, will cause his Enemies to know his Power, and that he doth and can do what∣soever he Will, and will smite his Enemies, and wound them in their Consciences; for all Power, Dominion, and Authority is with him, he is mighty to save, and mighty to destroy, and his Reward is to every one according to their deeds; and this is the God whom we fear and worship, and all flesh must bow before him, when he shews his presence; though men be high and lifted up, and go on in Rebellion against him without fear, yet the hand of the Lord will be upon them, and he shall smite them with the Rod of his mouth: Wherefore all Friends, have respect unto the Lord in your hearts in all things that you do, and in all things that cometh to pass, for that is blessed in a people; and they shall prosper, their Souls shall be nourished, and their lives refreshed with the mercies of the Lord, even all they that do wait upon the Lord, and have respect unto him and his Eter∣nal Power, which doth and suffereth all things that be; In which Power you must dwell and walk, and feel it in your hearts, and it will be your Armour and Defence in

all things, and it will carry you through all that which worketh contrary. And it is very pretious to be Armed with the Armour of God, in the Day of Temptations and Tryals, that you may not be overcome of the wic∣ked, nor spoiled of the heavenly Inheritance. Oh Friends! put on strength, that you may stand, and ne∣ver be moved from the hope of Eternal Life, and feel the renewing of your inward man, even the increase and growth of t