Christ's promise to the penitent thief. A sermon preached the Lord's-Day before the execution of Levi Ames, who suffered death for burglary, Oct. 21, 1773. Aet. 22. / By Andrew Eliot, D.D. Pastor of a church in Boston. ; [Two lines from Grotius] ; N.B. This discourse was preached at the desire of the prisoner, who was present when it was delivered.


CHRIST's Promise to the penitent THIEF. A SERMON Preached the LORD'S-Day before the Execution OF LEVI AMES, Who suffered Death for Burglary, Oct. 21, 1773. Aet. 22.
BY ANDREW ELIOT, D. D. Pastor of a CHURCH in Boston.
Pessimé fecerunt qui hanc vocem [hodie] aut cum dico conjunxe|runt, aut interpretati sunt hodie post resurrectionem.
GROTIUS.N. B. This discourse was preached at the desire of the Pri|soner, who was present when it was delivered.
BOSTON: Printed and Sold by JOHN BOYLE, next Door to the THREE DOVES in Marlborough-Street. 1773.
THE very short notice the Author of the following discourse had of the Prisoner's desire to attend his preach|ing must be his excuse for the many imperfections which will be found in it. A number of his friends thought the publication might be of service. When he consented to give them a copy, he did not suppose he had any right to ob|trude another sermon in the room of that which they requested. It appears therefore in it's original dress. May GOD accompany it with his blessing!
LUKE XXIII. 43.To-day shalt thou be with me in Paradise.THAT I may set these words before you in a just light, and may at the same time improve them to the purposes of religion, I shall go into the following method.
First, I shall briefly go over the story of which my text is the concluding part.
Secondly, I shall particularly explain the words now read.
Thirdly, I shall take notice of some profitable lessons we are taught by them.
Fourthly, I shall show, that there is no reason, from this instance, for any to presume on the mercy of God, so as to neglect, or defer their repentance.
I shall then apply the whole.
First, I am briefly to go over the whole story of which the text is a part.
Our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ was at this time on the cross, bearing the sins of his people. To cast the greater reproach upon him, they crucified two thieves, the one on his right hand, the other on

his left; thereby intimating that he was the most enormous offender of the three. While the inhuman spectators were deriding and insulting our Lord, "one of the malefactors railed on him, saying, if thou be Christ, save thyself and us." The evangelist Mat|thew speaks in the plural number, and so doth Mark, "They that were crucified with him, reviled him." From whence many expositors suppose, that the thief, who afterwards expressed himself with such penitence and faith, at first joined in this opprobrious and impious language; but it is more probable, that the plural number is put for the singular in those e|vangelists, an hebraism frequently used in the sacred writings, and that we are to receive the acco