Of the conversion of five thousand and nine hundred East-Indians, in the isle Formosa, neere China to the profession of the true God, in Jesus Christ : by meanes of M. Ro, Junius, a minister lately in Delph in Holland / related by ... M. C. Sibellius ... in a Latine letter ; translated ... by H. Jessei ... ; with a post-script of the Gospels good sucesse also amongst the VVest-Indians, in New England.


OF THE CONVERSON OF Five Thousand and Nine Hundred EAST-NDANS, n the sle FORMOSA, neere CHNA, To the Profession of the true GOD, in JESUS CHRST▪ By eanes of 〈…〉 a Minister 〈…〉 Pastor on D••en•rie there, in a Latine Letter. Translated to further the Faith and Joy of any here, by H. JESSE, a Servant of JESUS CHRST. With a POST-SCRPT of the Gospels good Successe also aongst the VVEST-NDANS, in New-England.
SA. 49, 2.Behold, these shall coe fro farre; and loe, these fro the NORTH, and these fro the WEST; and these fro the Land of  SNM.
 CHNA is called SNARUM Regio; Ptolo. lib. 7. cap. 3. Vide F. unii,
Annot. sai. 49.2.priatur, JOSEPH CARYL.
LONDON, Printed by ohn Haond, and are to be sold at his house voer-against S. Andrewes Church in Holborne; and in Popes-Head-Alley, by H. Allen. 650.
To his Christian Friends, in ENGLAND, NEW-ENGLAND, or elsewhere, that pray for the Coing in of the fullnesse of the Gentiles, that so all srael ay be saved; H. Jessei wisheth fro his soule, encrease of joy, and peace in beleeving.Dearely beloved,THere are three things, that (with any of you)  have greatly longed for; yea, foure that  a in travell with, and ust not cease, till they be brought forth: naely, First, that on Earth, where the Lords Nae hath beene greatly dishonoured, there his Nae ay be greatly glorified, Psal. 3.3. Psal. 67.2. Mal. .. Secondly, that here, where his people have beene generally reproached, and their soules exceedingly filled with the scorning of those which are at ease, and with the contept of the proud, Psal. 23.4. that their reproach ay be turn'd into honour, and their ourn∣ing into the garent of prayse, sai. 6.3, 7. sai. 35.0. Thirdly, that the Earth ay be so fill'd with the knowledge of ehovah, that all his people ay be one visibly, and serve ehovah with one shoulder; and all differences and envies aongst the ay be reoved farre away, sai. .9. Zeph. 3.9. ohn 7.2, 23. And fourthly, for all the Ends before-said, That the fullnesse of the Gentiles ight coe in, and that so all srael (the reainder of Naturall srael being thereby provoked to eulation) ight be saved, Ro. ., , 25, 26. Luke 2.24. For which glorious tie on Earth, the very
creature (which hath no hope of Heaven) groaning and be∣ing in travell, earnestly expecting, waits for, being subject to vanitie, untill that Glorious Libertie of the Sonnes of God: How uch ore ay wee, whose Soules are alrea∣die freed, wait for that appointent for his Sonnes, the free∣doe of our Bodies also fro all Thraldoe? as Ro. 8.9, 23.
Therefore, what great atter of refreshing was adi∣nistred to y Spirit, whe