An epytaphe, or a lamentable discourse wherein is bewayled the death of the right worshipfull knight, Sir William Garrat: one of the Queens Maiesties commissioners, and chiefe alderman of the honourable citie of London. Who deceased the. 27. of September. 1571.


✚An Epytaphe, or a lamentable Discourse: wherein is bewayled
the death of the Right worshipfull Knight, Sir William GARRAT: One of the Queens Maiesties Commissioners, and chiefe
Alderman of the honourable Citie of London. Who deceased the .27. of SEPTEMBER. 1571.sWHo can refraine from sorwing plaints,
and brinish blubbring teares?
What hart wyll now refuse to grone?
and tourne from Ioy his eares.
Ne high, ne low, ne Rich, ne poore, in London that remayne,
But haue iust cause for GARRATS losse, to languish and complayne:
Helpe me therefore ye powers deuine: that in the heauens doo dwell,
The losse of this moste worthy wight▪ in mourninge Uerse to tell.
Come now CALLIOPE I pray, and CLIO Goulden Dame:
with Sisters thine from HELYCON, aide mee frssh plaints to frame.
Stay not on Mownt PERNASO now, cast on your mournyng weede,
conuert your Hymnes and Songs of Ioy, to wailyng woes wt speede.
Send foorth with mee your sighing sobbes, the sacred Skies to pearce:
that vnto Goddes and mortall men, our plaints we may dispearse.
And fayle mee not O PALLAS now, amidst my griefe and woe:
But graunt with skyl to guide my Quil, these heauy Newes to shoe.
Sith I with teares do craue your aide, let mee your fauour finde:
The losse of GARRAT worthie Wight, help now to print in mind.
What? flie ye thus from mee? alas: why go ye backe againe?
wyll none of you to further mee, vouchsafe to take the payne?
Alas, (vnskilfull wretche:) Disdaine doth thee betide:
For MEDVCE and PIERIDES, with thee in place abyde:
These Dames, as hard as Steele or Flint, are fixed in thy sight:
and thou hast nought but black and white, thy meanyng to endight.
Leaue off therfore, sith CLIOS Spring, of Rhethorique is fled:
thy wyll is good, but powers thyne, with Ignorance are fed.
I wept to see my Fortune suche, my woes did then abounde:
But Hoape at last to comfort mee, a present meane foorth fownd:
Feare not (quoth she) dispaire thou not, set drowpyng dread aside,
take Pen and wriie: to comfort thee, (I Hoape) a meane prouide.
Lift vp thyne eies, behold and see, Dame Trueth is in thy sight:
with that I rendred humble thankes, and tooke my Pen to wright.
And now, awaye ye doubtfull lettes, that clogde my hart with feares:
By force to geue you ouerthrow, Dame Trueth in place appeares.
Should GARRATS losse vnminded bee? such Friend to Cōmon weale,
Though he be gone, should we not way, his true and godly zeale?
Should we forget his curtesie, so plainlie knowen and seene?
Then most vnkind we should remayne, sith he our frend hath ben.
Ye Consuls wise, ye Senatours, that Londons wealth prouide,
Lament and wayle, for vnto you, no small losse is betide.
Ye all haue lost a faithfull Frend, for Counsell sage and wise:
In thynges of weight