The art of giuing Describing the true nature, and right vse of liberality: and prouing that these dayes of the gospell haue farre exceeded the former times of superstition in true charitie and magnificence. By Thomas Cooper.


THE
ART OF
Giuing. Describing the true Na∣ture,
and right vse of
Liberality: And prouing
That these dayes of the Go∣spell
haue farre exceeded the
former times of Superstition
in true Charitie and
Magnificence.
BY
THOMAS COOPER.
LONDON,
Printed for T. Pauter, and are
to be sold in Iuy Lane. 1615.
TO THE RIGHT
VVorshipfull, Sir Iohn Rothe∣ram,
and Sir Gilbert Wakering,
Knights, and their vertuous La∣dies,
especiall Patrons of my
studies, T. C. wisheth all en∣crease
of the blessings of
Heauen and Earth.Right Worshipfull:THe occasions that hath
moued mee to treate of
this subiect of true Be∣neficence
in these latter
dayes are First, to propose
it as a liuely Touchstone
for the triall of our holy entertainment of the
glorious Gospell of Iesus Christ: Secondly, to
confound hereby the vaine confidence of
this deceitfull generation, which seeme to be
somewhat herein, when indeed they are no∣thing;
deceiuing themselues, euen as clouds

without water, in their false liberality. And
so to conuince the Atheist, that saith, where is
the promise of his comming? seeing this very
decay of true loue, is among other, one of those
pregnant signes, that the day of the Lord Iesus
is neere at hand, that so the wise in heart may
see the plague, and hide himselfe. And seeing
he that is comming will come quickly, with
his reward with him, to giue vnto euery one
according to his work, yea, will come sodainly
in an houre, that no man knowes of, ought we
not alwaies to haue Oyle ready in our Lamps,
that so we may enter in vnto our masters ioy?
Surely were there nothing else to moue vs
hereunto, but the commandement of our hea∣uenly
Master, this should prouoke vs to loue
one another, this should adiure vs to abound
in Charity, that so we might auoid eternall
vengeance, seeing all the commandements are
fulfilled in this, that we loue each other, & to
faile in one duty is guilty of the breach of all.
But behold what loue the Father hath shew∣ed
vs, that, what was impossible to the com∣mandement
in regard of the transgression,
whereby sin reuiued & became 〈◊〉 of mea∣sure
sinfull: and so the hatred increasing, we
had no hope, but were as water spilt vpon the
ground, that we could not be gathered vp

againe: Our God which is rich in mercy
through his great loue, wherewith he loued
vs, supplied by a most gracious and wonder∣full
remedy, namely, the pretious bloud of his
deere sonne, as of a Lambe vndefiled & with∣out
spot. This is that bloud that hath spoken
better things for vs then the bloud of Abel,
not only stopping that loud crie of Vengeance
which our sinnes called for, but opening vnto
vs the gates of righteousnesse, and enabling
vs to walke in the similitude of the death
and resurrection of Iesus Christ, that so we
might be partakers with him of eter