Sir Walter Raleighs instructions to his sonne and to posterity


 [illustration] Braue Raleigh's outward figure heere you finde
But the great worth and sharpenesse of his minde
No tablet can containe; no paynter's skill
Expresse, seeke that from his owne 〈◊〉 quill.
SIR Walter Raleighs INSTRVCTIONS TO HIS SONNE And to POSTERITY.
LONDON: Printed for Beniamin Fisher, dwelling in Aldersgate-street at the Talbot, 1632.
TO THE READER.IT was not perhaps, intended by the renowned

Author, that these Instructions shold be made publique: they were directed to his Sonne, who doth make iust & due use of them. But such is the lu∣stre of Wisedome, that it cannot be hidden. Men may

bequeath their Wealth to their Children in par∣ticular, but their Wisedome was gi∣ven them for more generall Good-Virgil willed that his deathlesse AE∣neis should not live; but Great
Augustus chose herein rather to violate his Will, then to bury such Treasure. Wee neede not such an Authority nor pre∣cedent for this Publication: it is sufficient that it is a communicable

Good. Could his noble Sonne bee hereby any way impaired, He shold still have impro∣priated it. But now He shall gain thus much; The World shall see that the most secret Counsels of his Fa∣ther

were Iust and religious, and hath good cause to hope that a Sonne so in∣structed can be no otherwise.
Suppose (Rea∣der) that thy Fa∣ther might or shold have given thee such Advice; so

shalt thou be more willing to follow it and receive the Benefits here pre∣scribed; Discreti∣on and Honesty.
The Contents of the severall Chap∣ters contained in this BOOKE.Chap. 1.VVIse, and vertu∣ous persons to be made choice of for friends.Chap. 2.Great care to be had in the choosing of a Wise.Chap. 3.Wisest men have beene abused by flatterers.Chap. 4.Private quarrels to be avoided.Chap. 5.Three Rules to be ob∣served for the preservati∣on of mans estate.Chap. 6.What sort of Servants are fittest to be entertai∣ned.Chap. 7.Brave ragges weare soo∣nest out of fashion.Chap. 8.Riches not to bee sought by euill meanes.Chap. 9.What inconueniences happen to such as delight in wine.Chap. 10.Let God be thy protector and director in all thy Actions.S. WALTER RALEIGH, TO His Sonne.CHAP. 1.THere is no∣thing more becōming a wise man

then to make choice of Freinds; for by them thou shalt bee judged what thou art; let them there∣fore be wise and ver∣tuous, and none of those that follow thee for gaine, but make election rather of thy Betters then thy Inferiors, shun∣ning alwayes such as are poore & nee∣die,

for if thou giuest twenty guifts, and refuse to doe the like but once, all that thou hast done will bee lost, and such men will become thy mortall Ene∣mies; take also es∣peciall care, that thou neuer trust any Friend, or Soruane, with any matter that may endanger thine

estate, for so shalt thou make thy selfe a bond-slaue to him that thou trustest, and leaue thy selfe alwayes to his mer∣cie, and be sure of this, thou shalt neuer find a freind in these th