A commentarie of M. Iohn Caluine, vpon the booke of Iosue finished a little before his death: translated out of Latine into Englishe by W.F. Wherevnto is added a table of the principall matters.


A Commen∣tarie of M. Iohn Caluine, vpon the Booke of Iosue, fini∣shed a little before his death: Translated out of Latine into Englishe by W. F.
Wherevnto is added a table of the principall matters.
 [illustration] 
¶ Imprinted at London, for George Bishop, 1578.
The Argument of the Booke of Iosue.COncerning the author of this booke, it is better that we shoulde suspend our iudgement, than that we should affirme any thing of so vncerteine a matter. They which thinke it was Io∣sue, because it is intituled of his name, leane vppon a verie slight and weake reason. For the holy historie beareth the name of Samuel, in which not∣withstanding is a rehersal of such ma∣ters as followed after his death. And surely, the booke which fol∣loweth next in order, is not therfore called the booke of Iudges, because it was written by them: but because it reporteth such things as were done by them, and vnder their gouernment. Now that historie which is reported in the. 15. Chapter of the taking of the two cities Hebron & Debir, was executed after the death of Iosue. It were therefore a more likely coniecture to thinke, that the principall summes of matters were gathered together by Eliazar the high Priest, out of which this booke was compi∣led & made. For it was his peculiar charge, not only to teach the people of his age by his owne voyce while he liued: but also to leaue a testimonie vnto the posteritie of the grace of God in pre∣seruing his Church, that true religion might the better be enlar∣ged. And before the Leuites grewe out of kinde from their first institutiō, they had among them by order as it were publike No∣taries or Registrers, which committed to perpetuall memorie, whatsoeuer was worthie to be remembred in the gouernment of the Church. But as for that which is not certeinly knowen vn∣to vs, neither yet is verie necessarie to be knowen, let vs not be loath to leaue it in doubt and vncerteintie: so long as we are cer∣teine of that which is the cheefest point, namely, that the doc∣trine which is conteined in this booke, is inspired of the holie Ghost for our profite, out of which no small fruite may be recei∣ued of the diligent and attentiue readers.
For although the people hauing before this time obteined no∣table victories, dwelled in a countrie that was of reasonable commodities, and meanelie good fruitfulnesse: yet the promise

of God concerning the land of Chanaan remained still in sus∣pense, & wanted execution. Yea, the chiefest point of the coue∣nant, as yet did lacke the effect & performaunce: as though that God, after he had cast the people into a narrowe corner, had ge∣uen ouer his enterprise, and left it maymed and vnperfect.
This booke therefore declareth, that when the intollerable vngodlinesse of the people had broken off the course of their de∣l