All the votes, orders, &c. in the House of Commons, both in the late, and present Parliament, touching the Earl of Danby: 


All the VOTES, ORDERS, &c. IN THE House of Commons, Both in the Late, and Present Parliament, touching The EARL of DANBY.Jovis, Decemb. 19. 1678.REsolved, That there is sufficient Matter of Impeachment against the Lord Treasurer.
Ordered, That a Committee be appointed to draw up Articles of Impeachment against the Lord Treasurer: And the said Committee was to receive any further Informations, or Evidence against him.
Sabbati 21 Decemb. 78.Mr. Williams Reports from the Committee, That they had Agreed upon several Articles of Impeachment against the Lord Treasurer, which were severally put to the Question, and Agreed upon by the House. And,
Ordered, That the said Articles of Impeachment be Ingross'd: And that a Clause of saving Liberty to Exhi∣bit any further Articles, be Inserted. And that he be sequestred from Parliament, and Committed to safe Cu∣stody. And Sir Henry Capel to carry up the Articles on Monday next.
Lunae 23 Decemb. 78.The Clause of saving Liberty, &c. was then brought in, and ordered to be ingross'd with the other Articles.
Post Meridiem, 23 Decemb. 78.Sir Henry Capel acquaints the House, That he had attended the Lords with the Articles of Impeachment against the Lord Treasurer, and had delivered the same into the hands of the Lord Chancellor.
Jovis, 20 March 78/9.Resolved, That a Message be sent to the Lords, to put them in mind of the Impeachment of High Treason Exhibited against Thomas Earl of Danby, in the Name of the Commons, and to desire that he may be forthwith committed to safe Custody.
Resolved, That it be referred to the Committee of Secrecy, to draw up further Articles against Thomas Earl of Danby.
Sabbati, 22 March, 78/9.Resolved, That a Message be immediately sent to re-mind the Lords of the last Message sent them, relating to the Earl of Danby: And to demand, that he may be forthwith Sequestred from Parliament, and committed to safe Custody.
Mr. Powle Reports from a Conference, That the Duke of Monmouth spake at the said Conference, as fol∣loweth;
I am commanded by the Lords to acquaint you, That their Lordships having taken into Consideration Matters relating to the Earl of Danby, together with what His Majesty was pleased to say upon that Subject, have Ordered, That a Bill be brought in, By which Thomas Earl of Danby may be made for ever incapable of coming into his Majesties Presence, and of all Offices and Employments; and of receiving any Grants or Gifts from the Crown, and of Sitting in the House of Peers. The Consideration of this Report adjourned till Monday next.
A Committee appointed to repair to the Lord Chancellor, and other Offices, and enquire into the manner of suing forth the Pardon of Thomas Earl of Danby, and make their Report to the House.
Lunae 24. March 78/9.Sir Francis Winnington reports from the Committee appointed to enquire into the Manner of suing forth the Earl of Dan