Ovid travestie, a burlesque upon Ovid's Epistles by Alexander Radcliffe ...


Ovid Travestie,
A
BURLESQUE
UPON
Ovids Epistles.
The Second Edition, Enlarged with
Ten Epistles never before Printed.
BY
ALEXANDER RADCLIFFE,
of Gray's-Inn, Gent.
LONDON,
Printed for Jacob Tonson, at the Judge's-Head
in Chancery Lane▪ near Fleet-street.
MDCLXXXI.
TO
ROBERT FAIRBEARD
OF
GRAYS-INN, Esquire.SIR,HAving committed these Epistles to the
Press, I was horribly put to't for a
Patron—I thought of some great
Lord, or some Angelique Lady; but then again
consider'd I should never be able to adorn my
Dedication with benign Beams, coruscant Rayes,
and the Devil and all of Influence. At last I
heard my good Friend Mr. Fairbeard was
come to Town—nay then—all's well enough.
To you therefore I offer this English Ovid,
to whom you may not be unaptly compar'd in seve∣ral
parcels of your Life and Conversation; only
with this exception, That you have nothing of his
Tristibus about you.

'Tis you who Burlesque all the Foppery and
conceited Gravity of the Age. I remember you
once told a grave affected Advocate, That he
Burlesqu'd Gods Image, for God had made him
after his own Likeness, but he made himself look
like an Ass.
Upon the whole matter I am very well sa∣tisfy'd
in my Choice of you for my Judge; if you
speak well of the Book, 'tis all I desire, and the
Bookseller will have reason to rejoyce: tho'
by your approbation you may draw upon your self
a grand Inconvenience; for perhaps you may too
often have Songs, Sonnets, Madrigals, and an
innumerable Army of Stanza's obtruded upon
you by
Sir,Octob. 28th,
1680.Your humble Servant,
Alex. Radcliffe.TO THE
READER.
Occasioned by the
PREFACE
To a late Book call'd,
The WITS Paraphras'd.BEfore I shall give you any Account of our Old
Friend Ovid, or of his Life, I am to inform
you, that his Epistles have been ingeniously
and correctly translated by several Gentle∣men;
and withall, that he was of a good Family, and
a brave Fellow was he. Now, since the unhappy Ac∣cident
of his Death, his Ghost hath been lately at∣tempted
to be rais'd by an unlucky Pretender to
Poetry, who indeed hath not skill enough to disturb
his Manes: He calls his Book, The Wits Paraphras'd,
or, Paraphrase upon Paraphrase, that is, Throw
Pelion upon Ossa, Ossa upon Pelion, and away
with it. This Book he has dedicated to his Patron
Julian, Secretary to the Muses, in hopes that he may
get an Vnder-Writer's Place somewhere about Per∣nassus:
but alas! how can he ever hope for Prefer∣ment,
when he has blasphem'd the best Poet of our
Age, by mistaking Innocence for Ignorance: I wish
to God the last may not rise up in Judgment against
him. He (good Soul) is (as appears in his Epistle to
his Patron) for none of your High Flights; but, like
an humble Sinner in a strict Diet, makes all his Si∣mile's
of Close Stools with Velvet-Seats, and Pans
that receive the Excrement. God save us: What
are we when we are left to our selves!
Now for his Preface, he would imitate that inge∣n