The pernicious way of the rigid presbyter and antichristian ministers detected and several weighty matters (in controversie, betwixt Sion and her adversaires, or between the true church and the false) discussed : to inform both magistrates, ministers, and people,



THE Pernicious Way Of the Rigid PRESBYTER AND ANTICHRISTIAN MINISTERS, DETECTED.
And several weighty Matters (in Controversie, betwixt Sion and her Adversaries, or between the true Church and the false) discussed.
To inform both Magistrates, Ministers, and People, against the Spirit of Antichrist and Persecution.
Partly upon occasion of a Book, entituled, The QUA∣KERS LIBEL Answered, by Creswel Whately; who calls himself Minister of the GOSPEL.
To which is annexed, Something concerning the true Christ, and his being in his People; In answer to Matthew Caffin his great Error and Mistake of the Quakers, in his Book, entituled, Faith in God's Promises, the Saints best Weapon.
LONDON, Printed for Robert Wilson, 1662.







The Pernicious Way of the rigid PRESBYTER, and Antichristian Ministers, detected.
I. Touching Ministers Maintenance by Tithes, and whether they be now of Divine right, or no?SInce that we have seen several of the National Ministers have let fall their Plea for Tithes, upon a divine account, and only have fled to the National Law, and pleaded a ci∣vil Right to them (they not being able by the Scriptures to maintain their Plea for them, to be now of Divine Right due to the Ministry) I find one Creswel Whately (who calls himself a Minister of the Gospel) who (to shew his Ignorance and Confusion more than many others) hath taken it upon him (in his Book) to vindicate Tithes upon a Scripture account (as to be of Divine Right due to them) And therefore let us a little (in the first place) see what he saith for them.
The said Creswel Whately saith, Did not God appoint heretofore, that there should be Tithes payed of all they had, and in the Gospel he hath no where repealed that Command; and that the Apostle upheld the Right of Tithes, though he did forbear to take them? in pag. 2. & 17. of his Book. To which I answer; This would both make the Apostle a Transgressor (if there were such a Command in force which he did not obey, as this implies) as also it would make him false in what he said in his Epistle to the Hebrews, touching the change of the Priest∣hood, that took the Tithes, and the change of the Law, and disan∣nulling of the Commandement which the Sons of Levi had for Tithes; which Priesthood, Law, and Commandement, the Apostle plainly sheweth the change and end of, as is apparent in that of, Heb. 7.
And as for God's ordaining, That as they that Ministred at the Al∣tar, were partakers with the Altar; even so hath ordained, That they that Preach the Gospel, shall live of the Gospel; to which C. W. adds: Is it not plain, that as the Levites did partake with the Altar, by taking Tithes; even so must they that Preach the Gospel, live of the Gospel; namely, by taking Tyths