Stand still: Or, A bridle for the times A discourse tending to still the murmuring, to settle the wavering, to stay the wandring, to strengthen the fainting. As it was delivered to the Church of God at Great Yarmouth, Anno 1643. By John Brinsley, Minister of the Word there, and now published as a proper antidote against the present epidemicall distempers of the times.


STAND STILL OR, A bridle for the Times.
A Discourse tending to Still the Mur∣muring, to Settle the Wavering, to Stay the Wandring, to Strengthen the Fainting.
As it was delivered to the Church of GOD at Great YARMOUTH, Anno 1643.
By JOHN BRINSLEY, Minister of the Word there. And now published as a proper Antidote against the pre∣sent Epidemicall Distempers of the Times.
EXOD. 14.13.Feare yee not, [Stand-still] and see the salvation of the Lord, which he will shew unto you this day.
LONDON: Printed for William Frankling, and are to be sold at his Shop next the George in Norwich. 1647.
〈1 page duplicate〉TO MY EVER HONOURED AND WORTHY FRIENDS The Baliffes, Aldermen, Burgesses, and Commonalty of the Towne of great YARRMOUTH.(Much'esteemed in the Lord)THese Meditations, when first delivered in your hearing I am sure they were then seaso∣nable; would to God they were not too much so now that they are presented to a publick view. A foure-fold Evill I then observed, (I wish they were not all still too observable;) which the times in∣clined and disposed multitudes unto, viz. Murmu∣ring, Wavering, Wandring, Fainting. My de∣•ire and designe in the following discourse was to meet with them all, by suggesting such Counsels as might be proper for each. Possibly my right inten∣tions herein (as in Preaching so in Publishing) may at some hands meet with sinister acceptations; But this I weigh not, my ey• being more upon doing
of good, then receiving of thankes. May these my poore labours bee any wayes serviceable to the Church (for whose Peace I am as willing to be sa∣crificed, as Ionas was to be cast over-board, for the laying of that storme which indangered the Ship wherein himselfe was a Passenger) I shall account it recompence sufficient. In the hopes whereof, with my Prayers for you, that hee who is of power to stablish you would both make and keep you stable in these unstable times I shall leave them with you, and rest
Yarmouth,Iul. 1.1647.Your unworthy servant in our Lord, Iohn Brinsley.STAND STILL: OR, A bridle for the Times, &c.EXOD. 14.13.[Stand still:]STand,] This word in the mouth of a Souldi∣er is a word of Command. And so shall we find it in the mouth of Moses here in my Text: A Word of Command directed by this man of warre, this truely vali∣ant and noble Generall, to the Hoast of Israel at the Red-Sea, orde•••g them what to doe in that great strait where∣into God had then brought them. State, Consistite, Stand, Stand-still. A word in the signification of it large, and comprehensive: Here (as I conceive) importing these foure things, which I shall expresse unto you in foure words. St