Mr. J. Briscoe, a director in the national land-bank, his defence of Dr. Hugh Chamberlen's bank or office of land credit. In a letter to the doctor


Mr. J. BRISCOE, A Director in the National Land-Bank, his Defence of Dr. Hugh Chamberlen's Bank or Office of Land-Credit. In a LETTER to the DOCTOR.
TO THE READER.HAving written so much in Defence of the Office of Land-Credit, which hath not yet been Answered, much less Confuted; I am, I confess, very unwilling to trouble myself or others any farther in this matter: But (having by me a Letter in favour of my said Office, wherein the length of Time, and Reasonableness of it, are sufficientl justified, writ∣ten sometime since by my said old Friend Mr. J.B. upon occasion of some Objections against my Proposal for Scotland, (of the same Nature and length of Time) sent me by some anony∣mous, bashful, Scotch Author, as unwilling to stand the shock of the Contest, as seems to be a late Nameless Author of a Bank-Dialogue betwixt Dr. H. C. and a Country Gentleman) I sup∣pose Publishing the same will, by reason of the Great Reputation M. Briscoe hath among some of our Senators, as well as our Citizens, more strongly recommend this Bank or Office of Land-Credit, and give more Satisfaction to the World, than anything I can say or write: Which Justice of Publishing the same, I thought was owing to Mr. Briscoe, and for which I hope he will not grudge me his Thanks: For, tho', by his setting up an Ʋnderta∣king of Less Advantage to the Subscribers, he may seem to have changed his Mind, yet he, who best understands his own meaning, hath declared to a Friend, That he was sure there lay no good Objection against my Ʋnderta∣king; but, if the People could not see their own great Advantage, perhaps it might be prudent to treat them ac∣cording to their Ʋnderstandings, or indeed their Wilfulness; and so much the rather, because such a small Essay might possibly by degrees introduce the Greater: So that he thought the Nation fitter to be fed at first with Milk, thvn with strong Meat. Farewel.
H: CHAMBERLEN.The Letter follows, which was sent me to be Published, as I saw occasion.SIR,Londonthe 23th of October, 1693.I Received a Paper from you, which I have returned you again here inclosed, intituled, Observa∣tions upon Dr. Chamberlen's Project of Trade; upon which you desire my Remarks: But upon Read∣ing the Paper, I find the Objections so weak, and so ill digested, that I thought it not worth my while to spend either Time or Paper upon them. However, to gratifie your Request, I have sent you my Observations upon them, and I think have fully Answered them; only I have not done it in order, as they stand in his Paper, but as I found it was proper for the fully stating and clearing of the Business.
I doubt the Gentleman, who sent you this Paper, hath not read your printed Paper; if he hath,
 surely he doth not understand it, else he would not have laid down so false a Position, and from thence have drawn as erronious a Conclusi