The history of the crusade, or, The expeditions of the Christian princes for the conquest of the Holy Land written originally in French, by the fam'd Mounsieur Maimbourg ; Englished by John Nalson.


THE HISTORY OF THE CRUSADE; OR, THE EXPEDITIONS OF THE Christian Princes FOR THE CONQUEST OF THE Holy Land.
Written Originally in FRENCH, By the Fam'd MOUNSIEUR MAIMBOURG.
Englished by JOHN NALSON, L L. D.
LONDON, Printed by R. H. for Thomas Dring, at the Corner of Chancery-Lane next Fleet-Street. MDCLXXXV.
TO THE Right Honourable HENRY, Earl of CLARENDON, Lord Privy Seal.My Lord,I Am very sensible in what manner I expose my self, in adventuring to present your Lordship this Translation; since not only my self, but the whole World knows, that your early Loyalty, and Banishment for the Royal Cause, by your Retreat in France, have made you an absolute Master of that Language, from whence it is borrowed: So that I could not but foresee, That consequently your Lordship is best able to distinguish, not only my own, but those Imperfections, which of necessity must attend Copies, when compared with their Originals; there being in all Languages some Graces and Beauties of their Native Idiom, so peculiar to them, as are difficultly to be supplied, or tollera∣bly Imitated by any other. But, My Lord, your Noble Character is too well known, to per∣mit
me to dispair of Pardon; and since your Lordship is so publickly remarkable, for your ad∣mirable Industry in Cultivating your Mind with all manner of Gentile Reading, it gives me hopes, that your Lordship will not be displeased to see those generous Inclinations cherished in others; and some Assistances and Invitations given to such, whose Education hath not made them acquainted with Foreign Languages, whereby they may re∣ceive, in the familiar Dress of their Native Coun∣trey, the advantage of what hath been written by Curious Pens of other Nations.
However, My Lord, Gratitude, the only thing wherein I can be Liberal, as it obliges me to cele∣brate your Lordship's Name, as having received those Favours from your Lordship, for which I must acknowledge my self under such Obligati∣ons, as lying nearest my Heart, will be forward to be upon my Lips; so it is impossible for me not to lay hold, even with some precipitation, upon the least Occasions, wherein I may, in any measure, Express, what I do not only Esteem so much a Duty, but also so great a Pleasure to do my self the Honour of telling the whole World, that I am,
My Lord,Your Lordship's most obliged, and most humble Servant, JOHN NALSON.Ely, March 12th. 1684/5.TO THE READER.IT is I think, if it be a mistake, such a one as is common to the great∣est part of Mankind, to have that Opinion of their Sentiments, especially those of Pleasure, to believe, that what they find diver∣tive and agreeable to themselves, must be so likewise to others, what ever Inconveniences this may render men liable to in other mat∣ters, I am not either curious to know, or at present to inqui