Rachel's sepulchre; or, A memorial of Mrs. Lydia Willis, taken, chiefly, from her letters to friends, on various occasions.


Rachel's Sepulchre; OR, A MEMORIAL OF Mrs. Lydia Willis, Taken, chiefly, from her Letters to Friends, on various occasions.A DESIRE to preserve the memory of worthy and beloved Friends, especially of such as have, thro' the course of their lives, approved them|selves the friends of God, is not only founded in nature, but seems evidently warranted in the holy Scrip|tures. God has told us that the righteous shall be in everlasting remembrance ; and that the memory of the just is blessed (2).—Which implies the care of Pro|vidence, not by miracle, but by the use of proper means, in preserving the memory of such just and righteous per|sons: While those of an opposite character, thro' neglect, are forgotten. Their very name is blotted out; as it follows, but the name of the wicked shall rot.
From this principle, no doubt, and with this view, even to perpetuate the memory of his beloved Rachel, the Patriarch Jacob raised a monument over her grave, Gen. 35. 19, 20 Rachel died, and was buried in the way to Ephrath; and Jacob set a pillar upon her grave: that is the pillar of Rachel's grave unto this day: which was known, in after ages, to be Rachel's sepulchre, and re|ferred to, 1 Sam. 10. 2.
But there are other monuments, equally durable and more instructive, due to the merits of some departed friends, which may be justly expected, as they are earnestly desired by the living; for this worthy end, that God may be glorified and praised, for his gifts and graces, bestowed on the children of men, whereby he alone makes one to differ from another.
The monuments here intended, are the Lives and Cha|racters of persons, whose excellent spirit, christian conver|sation, profitable writings and good works, do furnish ma|terials both to entertain and edify succeeding generations, who, without such memorials, would entirely miss the benefit.
Tis with this view, and not without some hopes of at|taining this end that I have, at the earnest desire of one (whom I could not deny) been persuaded to gather up some pious remains of Mrs. Lydia Willis, whose memory is precious, so far as I have known, to all her acquaintance— peculiarly so, to her beloved, surviving husband, near re|lations and intimate friends, for whose use, more especially, these pages are designed.
Characters, I know, are oftentimes offensive; and many unkind reflections, are occasioned thereby, both on the liv|ing and the dead.—But why should any be offended at a character truly drawn? Why take offence, at a simple narrative of facts, or a true and faithful account of those virtues and good things, which evidently took place and

appeared, in the person's life! And this I take to be the main point, in giving a character, even to pay a sacred regard to truth in relating facts, or things that were really found, in the person described. And when all is said in truth, we mean not, ther