A funerall oratyon made the xiiij. day of Ianuary by Iohn Hoper, the yere of our saluation, 1549. vpon the texte wrytyne in the Reuelatyone of Sayncte Iohne. Ca. 14.


¶ A funerall oratyon made the xiiii. day of January by John Hoper, the yere of our saluation, 1549. vpon the texte wrytyne in the Reuelatyone of Sayncte Johne. Ca. 14.
.✚.
¶1. Thessalo. 4.Murne not as other do which haue no hope.
¶ I hearde a voice from heauen, saying vnto me. Writ, Blessed are the deade, that dye in the Lorde, streyght waye, so sayth the sprete: that they maye reste from there laboures, but there workes folowe thē.¶ A Preface to the texte.THe death of a mans fredis paynefull for 2. cōsyderatiōs. The one, because he that lyuethe is forsaken and desty∣tute of the famylyarytye and frendshipe of him that is dead.

The othere, that the lyuynge dowteth, where the soul of his frende departed is bycome. Whether it be in heauen or in hel. Both thys Iles, maye be redressed with one gode, that is to wyt: If he that lyueth be assured, by the worde of God that his frende departed, is by mortal death entered in Christ in to eternall lyfe. But nowe in thys standeth all the dowte. How the lyuynge maye know in what state the soules depar∣ted stond. This dowte can not the Gentyle dissolue, the wyse menne of the worlde, nor the commone sorte of soche as bea∣reth the name of christianite.
¶ Namely for this: that they ymagyn there frendes soules, to be broiled & rosted in the fyre of Purgatory. Wherfore euen

as they feare they wotte not what: so seke they there reme∣dy they know not how. Wyth Masse, Dirige and such other. This paynes (by the lyuynge) presupposed of the deade: who can iustlye reprehende the mis∣belyuynge lyuyng for the state of the dead, that more thē nede is panyth thē selues, and more then profyt is: redemeth the prayers of other. But what may the truethe conclude. Is there any certayenty that put∣tyth al out of dowte, oure fren∣des soules to departe from the earthe, strayght vnto eternall lyfe. Truly after the iugement of the fleshe, there is no suche knoweledge. For the fleshe in this case, eyther wyll planelye dispayre for the horrour and gretnes of synne: or els dowte

of the meanes howe it maye be remedyd. Onelye therefore the certayntye is knowen by the scrypture of God. Gyue therefore hede what in thys case what the worde of god cer¦tifieth vs of the deade.
¶ I hearde a voyce from heauen sayinge vnto me: Write. Blessed are the dead that dye in the lord straight waye.IN a matter of dowt, here beholde the dyuersyte be∣tweyne the learnynge of God, and the lerninge of man. The lernynge of man wythout iudgement, knoweledge, and grace: wyll compell and force them what lyue to beleue there frendes soules departed to be

broyled in Purgatory. Desyre thē to giue you a reason why? Aunswere haue they none, but that ye muste so beleue, or els be accompted for an Heretike. So that rather they wil force menne wyth dowte to abyde in sorowe: then with iugement of Godde