A panegyric to Charles the Second presented to His Majestie the xxxiii. [sic] of April, being the day of his coronation, MDCLXI.


A
PANEGYRIC
TO
Charles the Second,
PRESENTED
TO HIS MAJESTIE
The XXXIII. of APRIL, being the Day
OF HIS
CORONATION.
MDCLXI.
By IOHN EVELYN, Esquire.
LONDON,
Printed for Iohn Crooke, and are to be sold at the Ship in
St. Paul's Church-Yard.
A
PANEGYRIC
TO
CHARLES the II.
PRESENTED
TO HIS MAJESTY
On the Day of His INAUGURATION,
April 23. MDCLXI.I Have decreed with my self (O best and greatest of Kings!)
to publish the just resentiments of a heart, perfectly touch'd
with the Joy and Universal Acclamations of your People,
for your this dayes Exaltation and glorious investiture.
And truly, it was of custome us'd to good and gracious
Princes, upon lesser occasions, to pronounce and celebrate their merits
with Elogies and Panegyrics; but if ever they were due, it is to your
Majesty this Day; because as your Virtues are superiour to all that
pass•d before you; so is the Conjuncture, and the steps by which you
are happily ascended to it, Miraculous, and alltogether stupendious:
So that what the former Ages might produce to deprecate their
fears, or flatter the Inclinations of a Tyrant, we offer spontaneously,
and by Instinct, without Artifice to your Serene Majesty, our just and
rightfull Soveraign. And if in these expressions of it, and the formes
we use, it were possible to exceed, and so offend your Modesty; here∣in
only (great Sir) do we not fear to disobey you; since it is not in
your power to deny us our rejoycing, nor indeed in ours, to moderate.
Permit us therefore (O best of Kings) to follow our genius, and to
consecrate your Name, and this dayes exaltation to that posterity
which you alone have preserved, and which had certainly seen its pe∣riod,
but for your happy Restauration; so that your Majesty does not
so much accept a benefit from, as give it to your Subjects. For though
the fulness of this Dayes joy, be like the seven years of plenty; yet,
is that bread far more sweet, which is eaten with remembrance of
the past Famine (too bitter, alas! to be forgotten on the suddain) e∣specially,
when it may serve to illustrate our present felicity, and con∣duce
to your Majesties glory: For so the skillful Artist, studious of making
a surprising peice, or representing some irradiated Deity, deepens the

shadowes sometimes with the darkest touches, and approaching to hor∣rour
it self, thereby to render his lights the more refulgent, and striking
in the eyes of the Spectator.
Let us then call to mind (and yet for ever cursed be the memory of it)
those dismal clouds, which lately orespread us, when we served the
lusts of those immane Usurpets, greedy of power, that themselves
might be under none; Cruel, that they might murther the Innocent
without cause; Rich, with the publick poverty; strong, by putting the
sword into the hands of furies, and prosperous by unheard of perfidie.
Armies, Battails, Impeaching, Imprisonment, Arrai