A treatise concerning prayer;:  containing particularly an apology for the use of the Lords prayer. / By Thomas Hodges, B.D. Rector of the Church of Souldern.


A Treatise CONCERNING PRAYER; Containing particularly AN APOLOGY For the use of the LORDS PRAYER.
By THOMAS HODGES, B.D. Rector of the Church of Souldern.
LONDON, Printed by John Grismond. 1656.
TO The very much Honoured, John Crew, EsqSIR,YOu may, perhaps, wonder, that the ensuing Treatise, being, for the maine, the substance of a Ser∣mon lately preached in your eares at Brackley, should now be presented

to the eye of the world: And again, that it should come forth after this manner, fronted with your name: And the ra∣ther at both, because you will finde your selfe sur∣prised without the least fore knowledge, or fore-thought of either. My answer for the first of these shall be this, That it containes an Apology for the use of the Lords Prayer, and consequently, a justification of my own, and many of my deare Brethrens practise, con∣formable to the Directory for publique Prayer, com∣piled by the Reverend

Fathers of the late As∣sembly, and authoriZed to be observed by Ordinance of Parliament, whereof you were a Member. I would not have it said, No Leiturgie, no Lords Prayer; that, since the Church of England hath laid aside the former, as unnecessary, or inconve∣nient; she hath cast out the latter, as unlawfull. And my desires and en∣deavours are, that as in the Marian times, times of Idolatry & superstition, some were martyr'd upon occasion of their saying the Lords Prayer in En∣glish;

now in these dayes of reformation, the Lords Prayer it selfe may not be made a Martyr, and they suffer in their names and reputations, that dare to use or rehearse it at all as a Prayer.
Now as for the present addresse to you, give me leave, Sir, to say, for say it I must, that when I con∣sider how many yeares you have been an eminent Patron of Preaching and Prayers in these parts of the Nation; and withall, that you were an Auditor of the Sermon, that your own house is an house of

prayer, that God hath re∣markably endued and blessed you with an under∣standing Head, an honest Heart, a fixed and stable Soule, and so qualified you to be a fit judge of Truth; I must confesse, looking about, I doe no where see such another excellent Theophilus, un∣der whose name and pa∣tronage I may with so much reason and boldness commit the following Treatise to the Presse. I am not without some hope, that it may meet with the better entertain∣ment in the world, be∣cause

it comes forth with the priviledge of your name: so that, if the ob∣scurity of the Author should hazard to darken the present Truth, the lustre of your name may be a meanes to scatter that cloud, and to cleare up that truth to the other∣wise blere-ey'd (i. e.) pre∣judic'd Reader.
And now, Sir, not de∣spairing of your pardon for ingaging you thus far let me beg your patience a little farther, viz. whilst by way of supplement to the Sermon I premise in thi