The heire an excellent comedie. As it was lately acted by the Company of the Reuels. / Writren [sic] by T.M. Gent..


THE HEIRE AN EXCELLENT COMEDIE.
As it was lately Acted by the Company of the Reuels.
Writren by T. M. Gent.
LONDON, Printed by B. A. for Thomas Iones, and are to bee sold at his shop in Chancery-lane, ouer-against the Roles, and in Westminster Hall.
TO MY HONOVRED friend, master Thomas May, vpon his Comedy, The Heire.THe Heire being borne, was in his tender age
Rockt in the Cradle of a priuate Stage,
Where lifted vp by many a willing hand,
The child doth from the first day fairely stand,
Since, hauing gathered strength, he dares preferre
His steps into the publicke Theater
The World: where he dispaires not but to find
A doome from men more able, but lesse kind.
I but his Vsher am, yet if my word
May passe, I dare be bound he will afford
Things must deserue a welcome, it well knowne
Such as best writers would haue wisht their owne.
You shall obserue his words in order meete,
And often stealing on, with equall feete
Slide into equall numbers, with such grace
As each word had beene moulded for that place.
You shall perceiue an amorous passion, spun
Into so smooth a web, as had the sunne,
When he pursu'd the swiftly flying Maid,
Courted her in such language she had staid,
A loue so well exprest must be the same,
The Author felt himselfe from his faire flame.
The whole plot doth like it selfe disclose
Through the fiue Acts, as doth a Looke, that goes
With letters, for till euery one be knowne,
The Lock's as fast as if you had found none.
And where his sportiue Muse doth draw a thred
Of mirth, chast Matrons may not blush to reade.
〈◊〉 haue I thought it fitter to reueale
〈◊〉 want of art (deare friend) then to conceale
〈…〉 It did appea•e I did not meane
〈…〉 thy well-wrought Comicke-Sceane,
〈…〉 might iudge my 〈◊〉 rather to be,
〈…〉 my selfe, th•• giue it thee;
〈…〉 thee none but what thou hast
〈…〉▪ and what must my faint breath outlast.
〈…〉 this garment (though 〈…〉 be
〈…〉 measure) onely made for thee,
〈…〉 to 〈◊〉, 'tis cause th• stuffe
〈…〉 allow•d me, was not large enough.
Thomas Car••AN EXCELLENT COMEDY CALLED the Heire.Enter Polimetes, Roscio.Pol.ROscio.
Ro.My Lord.
Pol.Hast thou divulg'd the newes
That my sonne dy'd at Athens.
Ros.Yes my Lord,
With euery circumstance, the time, the place,
And manner of his death; that it is beleeu'd
And told for newes with as much confidence
As if twere writ in Gallobelgicus.
Pol.That's well, that's very well, now Roscio
Followes my part, I must expresse a griefe
Not vsuall, not like a well left heire
For his dead father, or a lusty Widdow
For her old husband, must I counterfeit,
But in a deeper, a farre deeper straine
Weepe like a Father for his onely sonne,
Is not that hard to doe, ha, Roscio?
Ro.Oh no my Lord,
Not for your skill, has not your Lordship seene
A player personate Ieronimo?
Pol.By th'masse tis true, I haue seen the knaue paint griefe
In such a liuely colour, that for false
And acted passion