A breviary of military discipline, compos'd and published for the use of the militia containing explanations how to perform the postures of pikes and musquets, and also the several facings, distances, doublings, wheelings, and the uses thereof, the manner of drawing up and forming battalions, the posts of the officers in line, and march, with directions for orders of battle, and various ways of firing on divers forms, also directions for passing bridges, or defiles with other useful observations : whereunto is added the excercise of the horse / by Captain Lieutenant John Darker.


Let this Breviary be Printed and Practised by the Mili∣tia of Middlesex, under my Command.
Bedford.A BREVIARY OF Military Discipline, Compos'd and Published for the Use of the MILITIA.
CONTAINING Explanations how to perform the Postures of Pikes and Musquets; also the several Facings, Di∣stances, Doublings, Wheelings, and the Uses thereof.
The manner of Drawing up and forming Battalions, the Posts of the Officers in Line, and march, with Directions for Orders of Battle, and various ways of Firing on divers Forms; also Dire∣ctions for passing Bridges, or Defiles with other use∣full Observations.
Whereunto is added the Exercise of the HORSE.
By Captain Leiutenant JOHN DARKER, Adjutant of the Westminster Militia Regiment.
London, Printed and Sold by D. Brown at the Swan without Temple-Bar, T. Fox in Westminster-Hall, and F. Sanders in the New Exchange, and most other Booksellers, 1692. Price bound one Shilling.
To the Right Honourable William Earl of Bedford, Lord Russel, and Lord Russel of Thornhaugh, Lord Leiute∣nant of Middlesex, Knight Companion of the most noble Order of the Garter, and one of their Majesties most Honourable Privy Council.My Lord,IN this Happy Reign where Ho∣nour is the Reward of Vertue, if the Greatness of the Trust can recommend the Merit that holds it,
 possibly a fairer Post is not possess'd than your Lordships in the Leiute∣nancy of Middlesex.
Their present Majesties, there∣fore (whom God preserve) ha∣ving placed your Lordship Lord Leiutenant of the aforesaid Coun∣ty, a Person descended from an Ho∣nourable and Ancient Family, in∣dowed with such Heroick Eng∣lish Courage, that feared not with Extremity of Danger to withstand the Fury of Domestick Enemies to our Religion and Liberties, but have also bravely opposed the proud Insolence of those whose Minds where filled with Envy, as their Sails where with Wind; hoping to re∣duce
 the Freedom we enjoy to the Tyrannical Slavery they Pos∣sess.
Those excellent Vertues which continually flow from your Lord∣ship, together with the Honours and Favours your Lordship has con∣ferred on me, Embolden'd me humbly to present your Lord∣ship, with some Considerations for the Service of the Militia, by which I have endeavoured to state a Form of Exercise which is now Published, and I hope will con∣tribute to the effect for which it is designed, viz. to make the Milit•a (so great a part of which is under your Lordship