The mirror of architecture, or, The ground-rules of the art of building exactly laid down by Vincent Scamozzi ... ; reviewed and inlarged with the addition of a diagonal scale ... by Joachim Schuym of Amsterdam ; translated out of the Dutch by W.F. ; hereunto is added the description and use of an ordinary joynt-rule ... by John Browne.


 [illustration] THE BOOKE of ARCHITECTURE by VINCENT SCAMOZZI Mr. Builder of VeniceLONDON Printed for W m. Fisher
THE Mirror of Architecture: OR THE GROUND-RULES OF THE Art of Building, Exactly laid down by VINCENT SCAMOZZI Master-Builder of VENICE.
Reviewed and inlarged with the Addition of a Diagonal Scale being very useful for dividing the Author his given Parts into Minutes, whereby the principal Points of Architecture are easily and plainly demonstrated for the Benefit of all Lovers and Ingenious Practiti∣oners in the said Art.
By Ioachim Schuym of Amsterdam.
Translated out of Dutch by W. F.
Hereunto is added the Description and Use of an Ordinary Joynt-Rule fitted with Lines for the ready finding the Lengths and Angles of Rafters, and Hips and Collar-Beams in any Square or Bevelling Roof at any Pitch, and the ready drawing the Architrave, Frize, and Cornice in any Order. With other useful Conclusions by the said Rule.
By Iohn Browne.
The third Edition, with Addition of Stair-Cases and Chimney-Pieces.
London: Printed for W. Fisher, and R. Mount, at the Postern-Gate on Tower-hill, T. Passenger at the Three Bibles on London-Bridge, and E. Smith at the Bible in the South Portico of the Royal Exchange. 1687.
TO THE LOVERS OF ARCHITECTURE.Reader,AS in all things Order is to be observed that we may avoid Confusion, or else they will be a Chaos, as the Poets fan∣cy; So especially in this excellent Art of Architecture it is requisite that every part and member have its right Order and due Proporti∣on: And there having been many Masters who have with great Care and Industry brought this Art to a

great Perfection, among whom this famous Master Vincent Scamozzi, Chief Builder of the Magnificent City of Venice, deserves to be placed in the first and chiefest rank by the consent of all Judicious Artists. Therefore for the benefit of our own Nation, and that it may be made most useful for all Artificers in Building, and Lovers and Practitioners in this most useful Art; who are or may be em∣ployed in Royal and Magnificent Structures. The larger Book is here reduced into a smaller Volume, and the Author his given Parts divided into Minutes; whereby the Princi∣pal Rules of Architecture are made plain to ordinary Capacities by Io∣achym Schuym an Ingenious Artist. And for your better understanding, take notice, that by Model is signified the Measure of the whole Diameter

of the Column: as for example: Let the Diameter be 18, 16, or 12 Inches, which shall be the Model divided in∣to 60 Equal Parts or Minutes, (as you may see in the Diagonal Scale ensu∣ing) by using which Measure all the Parts of the said Column shall be Propo