The day of trouble is near. Two sermons wherein is shewed, what are the signs of a day of trouble being near. And particularly, what reason there is for New-England to expect a day of trouble. Also what is to be done, that we may escape these things which shall come to pass. Preached (the 11th day of the 12th moneth, 1673. Being a day of humiliation in one of the churches in Boston. / By Increase Mather, teacher of that church. ; [Seven lines of Scripture texts]


The Day of Trouble is near.
TWO SERMONS Wherein is shewed, What are the Signs of a Day of Trouble being near. And particularly, What reason there is for NEW-ENGLAND to expect A Day of Trouble. Also what is to be done, that we may escape these things which shall come to pass.
Preached (the 11th day of the 12th Moneth, 1673. being a day of HUMILIATION in one of the Churches in Boston.
By INCREASE MATHER, Teacher of that Church.
Ezek. 33.7.O Son of man, I have set thee a Watchman to the house of Israel, therefore thou shalt hear the word at my mouth, and warn them from me.
Matth. 24.6, 7, 8.Ye shall hear of wars▪ and rumours of wars— For Na|tion shall rise against Nation, and Kingdome against Kingdome: All these are the beginnings of sorrows.
Luke 21.28.And when these things shall begin to come to pass, then look up, and lift up your heads, for your Redemption draweth nigh.
Cambridge: Printed by Marmaduke Iohnson. 1674.
Christian Reader,IT is a known Observation, verified by Experience, as well as grounded upon Scripture-Prediction, That sinfull Security is the great Disease of the last Times, whereunto those Churche• are especially obnoxious, that have escaped the grosser Pollutions of the World and Antichrist, and do enjoy Rest, and Peace, and Free|dome from hard Bondage. Who sees not (that sees any thing) that the Security of this Age is very great? And may we not rationally •ea• that many of the Wise, as well as the Foolish Virgins in this Land of Rest, and Quietness, and Fulness of Spiritual Enjoyments, are slum|bering and sleeping? Consult we the Sacred Oracle, and we shall readily be informed, that one great Reason of the prevailing of this Distemper, is, because we put far from us the evil day, Amos 6.1, 3. Banishing the Thoughts of a day of Trouble, is both the Cause and Effect of carnal ease in Sion. How seasonable then is this practicall, solid, succinct, and comprehensive Discourse, which here offers it sel• to thy view, wherein the Reverend and Iudicious Author demonstrates with much strength and evidence (yea, I say, gives not onely Probable Indications, but Scriptural and Rational Demonstrations, according to the Common Law of Divine Dispensations) that a day of Trouble is near to New-England? Many are the solemn Warnings that the Lord hath given of a day of Trouble hastning upon us. The Lion hath roared, and the Trumpet hath been blown; And shall not the people be afraid? What a dead sleep of Midnight-Security hath surprised and overtaken them, that do not hear the loud Rep