The holy practises of a devine lover, or, The sainctly [sic] Ideots Deuotions the contents of the booke are contained in the ensuinge page.


THE HOLY PRACTISES OF A DEVINE LOVER OR THE SAINCTLY Ideots Deuotions.
The •••tents of the booke are contained in the en∣suinge page.
Gustate, & videte quam suauis est Dominus.Psal. 34.Tast, and see how sweete our Lord is.Psal. 35. 8.Printed at Paris by LEWIS DE LA FOSSE at the signe of the lookinge Glasse in the Carmes streete 1657.
With Approbation.
1. The Summarie of Perfection.2. The Directions: for these Holy Exer∣cises, & Ideots Deuotions.3. A Catalogue of such Bookes as are fitt for Contemplatiue Spirits.4. The Holy Exercises & Ideots Deuo∣tions.5. Th• Toppe of the Heauenlie ladder, or the Highest steppe of Prayer 〈◊〉 Per∣fection, by the Example of a Pilgrime goinge to Ierusalem.THE PREFACE. TO MY MOST DEARE∣lie beloued Friends in Christ Iesus.I HAVE accordinge to your holy iniunction, & desire (willinge to communicate all Good to others) pu∣blished those directions, & exercises through which by true practise (the only meanes, for simple readinge only auai∣leth nothinge at all) you haue reapt such greate Comfort, & Benefitt: that you seeme to crie out with the Royal Prophet.Come and heare all yee that fear• God, and I will declare to you what He hath done for my soule. That Hee maye doe the like for yours by the same meanes you practising•
these directions, & Exercises. This I know you saie deare Friends, and from your hart wish the same Spiritual profitt to all as to your selues.Capiat qui capere potest. Lett the capable & well disposed make vse of them. It is not needfull to name you to whom I speake this: for vppon these verie words I know your harts are burninge within you.My sheepe heare my voyce, & those who are mine know mee. I am the poore vnprofitable seruant not soe much as a voyce soundinge of the greate & cheife Sheepheard; & you are his people,& the sheepe of his pasture, yea I hope the choise of His flocke feed∣inge, & graisinge in the pleasant de∣serts of interne Recollection guided by the sweete grace of His Holye Spirit the sole secure Director. I need say noe more but that I am sure you reioyce for the voyce of Him that speaketh and declareth these things to you, & all other good people: and that I haue done soe, is my ioye alsoe beinge heere∣by

discharged of my Obligation to you and all. And our ioye I hope none shall take from vs being the best part, and for euer permanent. Deare friends I am yours the more intime by how much lesse outwardlie exprest, liuinge with you (I trust in God) a life hidden with Christ in God.
 [illustration] IHS
A SVMMARIE of Perfection.BEATI mundo corde quoniam ipsi Deum videbunt, Happie are the cleane of Hart, for they shall see God. Such a Vision of God signi∣fieth withall a fruition of him ther∣vpon, in this life only enigmaticallie, or accordinge to the light of fayth & feelings of Loue, in the future facially, & really. And it is cleannesse of hart