His Majesties most gracious pardon, pleaded at Justice Hall, in the Old-Bayly on Monday the 7th. of March, anno. Dom. 1687. And in the third year of His Majesties reign.


 [illustration] DIEV ET MON DROITHONI SOIT QVI MAL Y PENSE [royal blazon or coat of arms] His MAJESTIES Most Gracious PARDON, Pleaded at Justice Hall, in the OLD-BAYLY:On Monday the 7th. of March, Anno. Dom. 1687. And in the Third Year of His Majesties Reign.AS Mercy and Compassion to miserable Miscreants, (who by a wilful Breach of those Laws, which are set as Rules to square their Actions by, or Boundards to their wicked thoughts, and lawless desires, have Forfeited their Lives to Justice) is the brightest Gem, or most Resplendent Virtue, that Adorns the Royal Pow∣er, so it has appeared in nothing more excellent, or shewn its fuller perfection, than in our Most Gracious Sove∣reign, as his Reiterated Goodness and Commisseration of that kind, has manifested to the World, and amongst others, his Princely Acts of Clemency, flowing from the Royal Favour. (This) the Relation of which, is the Subjects of this Paper) ought to take place in the Hearts and Minds of his Subjects, and never to be forgotten by those whom it has snatched, even from the Gates of Death, and given a longer Date of Life; to try whe∣ther such Mercy (as indeed, it ought to do) can reclaim them from the Wickedness of their Ways. The Account of which, take as followeth
At the Sessions of Peace, Oyer and Terminer, Held at the Sessions-House in the Old-Bayly, on the 23d. 24th. and 25th. of February last. In the Close of the said Sessions, Monday the 7th. of this Instant March, 1687. was ap∣pointed by the Court, for the Criminals then remaining in the Goal of Newgate, to Pleade his Majesties Gracious Pardon, when accordingly between two and three in the Afternoon, the Right Honourable Sir John Peake, Kt. Lord Mayor of the City of London, the Deputy Recorder, and divers of the Aldermen; together, with the Right Worshipful, the Sheriffs of London and Middlesex, came to Justice-Hall, whether the Prisoners being brought from Newgate, in the Custody of Major Richardson; were set to the Barr, and being severally asked what they could say, why they should not be Executed, upon the Sentence that had passed against them at sundry times, &c. They one, by one, falling on their Knees, Prayed the Benefit of His Majesties Most Gracious Pardon, and so being brought out of the Pound from behind the Barr. The Partys whose Names follow, fell on their Knees in the Court whilst the Pardon was Reading, &c. viz.
Elenor Davis,Mary Stanly,Hester Sympson,Sarah Dean,Joseph Hensly,William Wilder,John C•lverwell,John Mi•…s,John Eld•id,Richard Roberts,John Dunkin,Arabella Reeves,Elias Smith,Humphrey Payton,Thomas Wall,Mary Lush,William Austin Hide,Edward Newgent,Thomas Fann,Edmund Anthony,Elizabeth Brockhouse, alias Brudnel,Nicholas Jones,Elizabeth James,James Deal, alias ReynoldsSarah Vince,John Jennings,John Reeves,Elizabeth Bamfield, alias Ca