Joy, the duty of survivors, on the death of pious friends and relatives. A funeral discourse on the death of Mrs. Lucy Waldo, the amiable consort of Mr. Samuel Waldo, merchant in Boston; who departed this life August 7th 1741, in the 38th year of her age. / By Charles Chauncy, A.M. Pastor of the First Church of Christ in Boston. ; [Two lines from Ecclesiastes]


JOY, the Duty of Survivors, on the Death of PIOUS Friends and Relatives.
A Funeral Discourse On the Death of Mrs. Lucy Waldo, The amiable Consort of Mr. Samuel Waldo, Merchant in BOSTON; Who departed this Life August 7th 1741, in the 38th Year of her Age.
By Charles Chauncy, A. M. Pastor of the first Church of CHRIST in BOSTON.
Eccles 7.1.A good Name is better than precious Ointment; and the Day of Death, than the Day of ones Birth.
BOSTON: Printed by S. Kneeland and T. Green, in Queen Street. 1741.
A Funeral Sermon.JOHN xiv. 28.— If ye loved me, ye would rejoyce, because I said, I go to the FATHER.—
THEY are the Words of our blessed SA|VIOUR; and he spake them to his Dis|ciples, at a Time, when their Hearts were troubled.
The Case was this: The Hour being just come, in which he knew, he should depart out of the World, he tho't proper to acquaint his Dis|ciples with it. Yet a little while, says he, I am with you. And again, Whither I go ye cannot come. At this sad, and unexpected News, they were filled with Grief. They could not bear the Tho't of parting with so dear a Friend, so good a Master and Lord.
Upon which, that they might not be swallowed up of overmuch Sorrow, our compassionate SAVIOUR proceeds to say that, which might have a tendency

to ease their Minds, and make them calm and quiet. He assures them, in his FATHER's House were many Mansions; and that he was only going to prepare a Place, where he and they might be together for ever. I go, says he, Context, ver. 2, to prepare a Place for you. And if I go, and prepare a Place for you, I will come again, and receive you unto my self, that where I am, there ye may be also As if he had said, "Tho' I am going from you, 'tis only for a Time; and this, in order to your Happiness, to prepare Mansions of Glory for you: Nor will it be long before I shall see you again, and admit you into my FATHER's House; when there shall never more be a Seperation between us. A most refreshing Consideration this! enough to compose their Spirits, and make them chearful at parting with their dearest SAVIOUR.
He then, after some other Disswasives from too much Grief, fetches Consolation for them, in the Words of the Text, from that which was the Source of all their Sorrow on his Account, even their Love to him. If ye loved me, says he, ye would rejoyce, because I said, I go to the FATHER. 'Tis as if he had spoken in such Language as this, "I have already told you, where I am going when I leave you; that I am going to the FATHER, to receive at his Hands, in Reward of my Services and Sufferings for the good of Men, a Name that is above every Name, at which,