A slaunderous libell (cast abroad) vnto an epitaph set forth vpon the death of D.E. Boner, with a reply to the same lying libell, by T. Broo: 


✚ A slaun∣derous Libell (cast abroad) vnto an Epi∣taph set forth vpon the death of D. E. Boner, with a Reply to the same lying Libell, by T. Broo.
 [illustration] 
❧ Imprinted at Lon∣don by Iohn Daye, dwelling ouer Aldersgate.
The Libell.
Who so sp eaketh that he should not:
must heare what he would not.

MArch forth in malice brauling Brooke,
let taunting tounge haue no restraint:
Spew our the worst thou canstinuent,
against this Boner blessed saint.

Spare not to speake most slaunderous speach,
against this Prelate dead and gone:
Declare thy selfe like furious dogge,
to bite and barke at euery stone.
Reply.
At length I finde thy lies I waigh not:
Truth bids me answere altho I would not.

NO malice moued hath my minde,
nor tauntingly the truth I penne:
No spite did cause me to depaint,
this Boner saint of Sathans denne.

Where as the deuill beares the crosse,
a holy sort it should appeare:
If Boner be a blessed saint,
then cruell Nero neede not feare.

The slaughter house had open wrong,
that Boner was a Byshop made:
And Newgate lost his right that day,
so skilfull he in Baylers trade.

No madde braine moode hath me prouokt,
nor Boner dead I ought despite:
Which thou mightst see with open eyes,
but Boner like thou hatst the light.

But loe from thee now flascheth forth,
the burning sprite of Boners brest:
Which wonted was in wilfull sort,
the law and truth with wrong to wrest.

Yet for I heard of some so fonde,
to thinke that he was wronged much:
A peece (not all) of his leude lite,
I thought no shame or sinne to touch.

I coulde haue tolde the numbers, great
of vices vile the viper had:
Whose fury fell and franticke force,
oft honest hartes with care hath clad.

And Epitaphes do onely serue,
the wightes enthrald by Atropos:
Which els the same of their desertes,
or good or badde might happe to lose.

Some prayse the Lawyers iudgementes right,
some vaunt the warriours worthynes:
Some tell the vertues of the wise,
some shew of Boners blouddynes.

Not I then like a furious dogge,
in death haue sauage Boner bitte:
Nor raging I with stormy streames,
but calmely loe my floudes did flitte.
The Libell.
Thy rayling tounge against good men,
is to well knowne seuen yeares agoe:
What slaunders thou against him heapest,
if truth were knowne be nothing so.
Reply.
Thou doest me wrong thus to accuse,
of flaundring any honest man:
Or now, or seuen yeares agoe,
name thou the wight if that thou can.

In rayling thou art Boners childe,
in scoffes, in scoldes, in slaunders vile,
In lyings leude in Popery,
it seemes thy dame did not begile.

Most like thy dad in euery poynt,
yet bastard none for ought I know:
Nor maiden Priest as Boner was,
whose children liude not long ago.

The infernall sprites do daunce for ioy,
to heare this Boners babe thus baule:
And falsehode fleeres to finde such frendes,
as seeke with lyes the trut