The new method of fortification, as practised by Monsieur de Vauban, Engineer General of France with an explication of all terms appertaining to that art / made English.


THE NEW METHOD OF Fortification. As Practised by Monsieur de VAUBAN, Engineer General of FRANCE: WITH AN EXPLICATION Of all Terms appertaining to that ART: Made English.
LONDON, Printed for Abel Swall, at the Unicorn at the West-End of St. Paul's Church-Yard, 1691.
To His GRACE, THE DUKE of ORMOND.May it please Your Grace,THE General Complaint of the want of Books of Fortifica∣tion in our English Tongue, has encouraged me to Translate ••at of Monsieur Vauban: To which I •as invited by the almost Universal Applause 〈◊〉 has received from the most competent ••dges. Nothing could have emboldned me 〈◊〉 the Presumption of this Address, but the ••od and Welfare of my Native Countrey, 〈◊〉 proposing your Grace to the Imitation of

our Nobility and Gentry, which seems to be the only Means for this Kingdom to recover its Ancient Glory. I doubt not, but that brave Example which your Grace continually sets to the whole Nation, will inspire the Men of Quality to come up to it, as near as possible: Which, if they had always done, Vauban might, without any great Detriment to us, have been confin'd to the Territories of his Master. That your Grace may ever prosper, and re∣ceive the Honours due to so great Merits; as it is the greatest Good can be wished you, so it is no less the un•eigned Desire of,
May it please your Grace,Your Grace's most Obedient and most humble Servant, ABEL SWALL.THE PREFACE.THis little Tract, which was chiefly de∣sign'd by the Ingenious Author, for the Use and Benefit of young Gen∣tlemen and others, addicted to the Study of this part of the Mathematicks, who have not leisure, or opportunity to read over the vast Systems of Voluminous Writers, has deser∣vedly obtain'd so great a Repute among the Curious, that it is Translated into several Languages. It contains an exact Explication of all the Terms that are attributed to Mathe∣matical Bodies; and, in general, all that is ne∣cessary for the Theory and Practice of a good Geometrician. Moreover, therein is exhibited the true Mensuration of Heights, Lengths, Planes, Solids, and Concaves; as also, the Sci∣ence call'd The Transmutation of Bodies; which is the Subject of the first Part. In the Second, are explain'd the Rules that are observ'd by the French Engineers at this day, in raising the•r Works; and at the same time, are produced

the different Sentiments of the French among themselves, as to this Matter; it is likewise shewn wherein their manner of Operation differs from that of the Germans, and other Nations. Lastly, The most clear and accu∣rate Method of Forti•ication is plainly taught.
The Word Geometry, is derived from the Greek,〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉, & 〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉; importing, to measure the Earth; so that Geometry (with respect to its Etymology,) is nothing else but the Art of measuring Land; yet i