The history of the troubles of Suethland and Poland, which occasioned the expulsion of Sigismundus the Third, king of those kingdomes, with his heires for ever from the Suethish crown with a continuation of those troubles, untill the truce, an. 1629 : as also, a particular narration of the daily passages at the last and great treaty of pacification between those two kingdomes, concluded at Stumbsdorff in Prussia, anno 1635 : concluding with a breife commemoration of the life and death of Sr. George Duglas, Knight, Lord Ambassadour extraordinary from the late King of Great Brittaine, for the treaty above mentioned / faithfully couched by J. Fowler ...


〈1 page duplicate〉〈1 page duplicate〉 [illustration] CAROLVS GVSTAVVS King of Swethens, Goths, & Vandalls, greate prince of Finland, Duke of Esthonia, & Carelia. Lord of Ingria. & Crowned Ano Dom̄: 1654.P S excudit [portrait of King Carl X Gustav of Sweden] 
THE HISTORY Of the Troubles of SUETHLAND AND POLAND, Which occasioned the Expulsion of Sigismundus the Third, King of those Kingdomes, with his Heires for ever from the SUETHISH Crown.
WITH A CONTINUATION OF THOSE Troubles, untill the Truce, An. 1629. As also, a particular Narration of the daily Passages at the last and great Treaty of Pacification between those two Kingdomes, con∣cluded at Stumbsdorff in Prussia, Anno 1635.
CONCLUDING WITH A BREIFE COMMEMORATION OF THE Life and Death of Sr. GEORGE DƲGLAS Knight, Lord Ambassadour Extraordinary from the late King of Great BRITTAINE, for the Treaty above mentioned.
Faithfully couched by J. FOVVLER, Secretary to his Lordship for that Embassy.
LONDON, Printed by Thomas Roycroft for Thomas Dring, and are to be sold at the George neer Cliffords Inne in Fleetstreet, 1656.
 [illustration] Collegium S. S. et Individuae Trinatatis in Academiá Cantabrigiensi
TO HIS HIGHNESSE THE LORD PROTECTOR,MY LORD,THE remembrance of having read, that a Great Emperor was once graciou∣sly pleased to accept of an Apple from the hand of a poor Peasant, hath en∣couraged me to the presenting of the ensuing Discourse unto your Highnesse.
As that Prince was (doubtless) induced to daign the reception of so slight a Gift from 〈◊〉mean a Giver, not for any merit either in the Person or Present, but by the conjecture he made of the dutifull affection wherwith it was Offered; so, I am willing to hope that, the boldness of this address may be the more ex∣cusable, in regard, the like affectionate duty is, in the most of submissiveness, herewith tendred.
Your Highness hath moreover (I humbly con∣ceive) a Peculiar right hereunto, as being the sole adae∣quate Paralell to the famous Princes of the Gustavian Line, mentioned in the following Narrative; for if they were great in Armes, which none can deny, and that their Heroick Actions have rendred their Memories renowned to Perpetuity; Your Highness Name is certainly engraven in Characters indeleble upon the never decaying Pillars of immortall Fame, whose Trumpet hath sounded your more the