82
CLMET3_1_1_82.txt
1710-1780
1750-1774
1750s
1751
Treatise
treat
The grand question debated
Kenrick, William
M
?1725

http://ota.ahds.ac.uk/text/5192.html
24-10-2012



THE Grand Question debated ; OR AN ESSAY TO PROVE That the Soul of Man is not , neither can it be , IMMORTAL .


THE Whole founded on the ARGUMENTS of LOCKE , NEWTON , POPE , BURNET , WATTS , &c..


By ONTOLOGOS .


Slave to no Sect who takes no private Road , But looks thro ' Nature up to Nature 's God .
POPE .
DUBLIN : Printed for G. WILSON , and sold by the Booksellers of Great-Britain and Ireland .
MDCCLI .


( Price One Shilling and Six-Pence . )


INTRODUCTION Necessary to be read .


 IN this Age of Doubt and Enquiry , when any Dissention from the Sentiments of the rest of Mankind is esteem'd an Instance of superior and refin'd Qualifications , it is highly probable that many of our fashionable Philosophers will be strangely elated on the Appearance of an Essay of this Kind ; and begin to triumph over those Set of Men who have Confidence enough in any particular System , as to think Reason can afford no better or surer way to Virtue and Happiness .
- But however these People may value themselves for differing from the rest of the World , had the Author of this Essay no other View than to shew himself in this Light , he would have kept his Sentiments ever to himself , since that Man must necessarily be a Villain who endeavours to disturb the Means of universal Happiness , by bringing in Doubt , or confuting any material Point in that System on which that Happiness depends .
- From a Knowledge of this , the virtuous philosophic Heathens forbore to undeceive the World as to the Veracity of their Mythology ; For doubtless in those Days of general Ignorance , if their moral Precepts had been strip'd of a religious Reverence , they would have been much less regarded ; as the Difficulty would have been too great for the Philosophers ever to have persuaded the rest of the World of the Necessity and Beauty of Virtue .


 So if this Age was as much involv'd in Ignorance as theirs , it would be the highest Piece of Injustice to separate Morality from any one System of Religion , however false and absurd Reason might make that System appear : But while the World abounds , as now it does , with so many thousands who are resolv'd to think for themselves , however little capacitated for such a Task ; I think it a necessary Piece of Justice just to point the Way the Powers of Reason naturally lead them , lest from a ridiculous Desire of being particular , they run headlong on , and instead of forming one rational Scheme for their own Satisfaction and Happiness , they use all their Art to subvert the Doctrines of Revelation , which can only disturb and perplex others , without bringing the least Advantage to themselves .


On the other Hand , I think this Essay may be useful to shew that those who have engag'd to support the Cause of Christianity by Reason , have taken very wrong Steps ,