A duell betvveen a Iesuite and a Dominican, begun at Paris, gallantly fought at Madrid, and victoriously ended at London, upon fryday the 16 day of May, Anno Dom. 1651. / by Thomas Gage, alias the English American, now preacher of the word at Deal in Kent.


A Duell between a Iesuite and a Dominican, begun at Paris, gallantly fought at Madrid, and victoriously ended at London, upon fryday the 16 day of May, Anno Dom. 1651. by Thomas Gage, alias the English American, now Preacher of the Word at DEAL in KENT.Curteous Reader,THE cause of my being at present at London requiring some satisfaction and just vin∣dication, I thought fit to set my self in the publick view of my Country, and once more to appear with the poor and begger∣ly Cloak of my former American Stile. The object of my discourse being a Jesuite and a Dominican, both professours of a sole fancy-pleasing Religion, my pen shall drop before thee a dream, the relation whereof may peradventure de∣light the sense and fancy of some, and from thence get further into the hearts of some others now holding the Stern of the weather-beaten ship of this Common-wealth. It is a most true and well experienced saying, that odia Religionum sunt acerbissima, and may be instanced both at home and a broad, but especially between the Jesuites and Dominicans, both clothed with out∣ward weeds of dissembled mortification, but both inwardly Lu∣pi rapaces, ravening Wolves, with sharp teeth of Passion biting and

devouring one another▪ This Passion begun with the birth of Ignatius, founder of the Jesuites Order, a fiery birth seconded speedily with a fiery name; what else signifieth Ignatius, but Igni∣natus, born for fire of mischief and sedition? This fire began to burn at Paris, and with it that ever since lasting quarrell between the Ignatians (now Jesuites) and the Dominicans. There it was that Ignatius like a Cobler beyond his Last, took upon him to soar above his reach, and to search into the mystery of the blessed Trinity, which proving too hard for his weak brain, brought him to a publike censure and judgement, & for his spee∣dy triall the Dominicans (being the Grand Inquisitors of the In∣quisition Court) were nominated Judges; who finding Ignatius too saucy with the secret Trinity of one glorious and Immortal God, and traducing it with blasphemous and erroneous princi∣ples, condemned him to a publike punishment, no less then whip∣ping. Lashes they were, that did not only gall Ignatius his back, but ever since have caused lashing and clashing between Ignatius his children and the Dominican Whippers. And if Ignatius his name betray his fire, stil blown and further kindled in most parts of the world by his train of Jesuites; so likewise doe the Domi∣nicans in their Legend Confession, acknowledge fire to be blown by them, who boast that when their founder Dominick was born, his mother saw in a dream stand by her a Dog with a lighted Torch in his mouth and a Globe; which, if true, may bet∣ter signifie that he an