Charity commended, or, A catholick Christian soberly instructed by J.C.


CHARITY
Commended,
OR,
A Catholick Christian
Soberly Instructed.
By J. C. M. D.
Quicquid deficiunt alia unica supplet cha∣ritatis
gratia quae in aeternum non de∣ficiet.
St. Ber.LONDON
Printed, and are to be sold at most Book-Sellers
Shops, 1667.
TO THE
READER.PAper Kites on all sides fly
high, born up with the air
of popular applause, and
wind off phancy to the ad∣miration
of plebeian heads;
tho•gh the prayer-toyes of
idle children while they misuse paper, and
mispend time, are of as great value as the
elaborate pieces of most polemicks: whose
books are the disguises of faction and dis∣eases
of Charity, by irreligious disputes
of what they miscall religion, drawing
that blood which should quicken the heart
of Religion from mens hearts into their
heads, leaving their hearts destitute of zeal
to God and mutuall dilection; and filling
their hearts with choler, which produ∣ces
that phrantick zeal which discomposes
the world; or stuffing them with ph•egm
which lulls them into a Lethargy of in∣differency
in religion; or raising those me∣lancholy

vapors which cause these Epilep∣tick
paroxisms in quaking enthusiasts:
Hence comes this morris dance of religions,
& the glorious body of Christianity, min∣ced
into factions makes but an Olio, dis∣tastefull
to Jew or Gentile▪ and it would
be a wonder to have a Iew converted to
Christianity, to what sect soever he was
converted, the other would condemn him:
and this might not seem a way to come to
God, but a path to Belial, & even amougst
Christians I have known not a few whose
too forward zeal to find out religion
hath carried them out of all religion:
when their fiery zeal had made a blaze,
it went out in the stench of Atheism. The
specious name of Catholick hath biassed
no lesser numbers to Rome, but the spiders
web of papall infallibility spun fine by
school wits not strong enough to hold
them, finding the lines drawn from bowels
poysoned with self-interest: breaking this
Cobweb net, they disdain all religions
as religations to insnare: and believe religi∣on
not above a state trick; or a vizard to
fright Children, and cheat the world:
since the world varies dssguises as frequent∣ly
as it changes interests.
A giddy minorage instructed me to
make prodigious sallies, & joyn with these

Babell builders, to try if I could elix truth
out of so great a confusion of Languages:
but the fruits of my curiosity prov'd not
above the Apples of Sodom, I was discom∣pos'd
by the noise rather then edify'd by
the tongues, and taught with Octavian to
cry out, utinam nescissem literas: to wish
often that I had been ignorant of letters,
since they could not furnish me with the
knowledge of Christs Cross, I retir'd within
to seek that at home which I could not
find abroad: and having anatomized o∣thers
in vain, I now dissect my self rather
then be inexperienced: here I find not those
antipathies which I meet in others: I seem
constellated for all Countries,