Every man his own lawyer: or, A summary of the laws of England, in a new and instructive method, under the following heads ... All of them so plainly treated of, that all manner of persons may be particularly aquainted [sic] with our laws and statutes, concerning civil and criminal affairs, and know how to defend themselves and their estates and fortunes, in all cases whatsoever.


EVERY MAN His own LAWYER: OR, A Summary of the Laws of England, in a New and Instructive Method, under the following Heads, VIZ.
I. Of Actions and Remedies, Writs, Process, Arrests, and Bail.II. Of Courts, Attornies and Solicitors therein, Juries Witnesses, Trials, Executions, &c.III. Of Estates and Property in Lands and Goods, and how acquired; An|cestors, Heirs, Executors and Ad|ministrators.IV. Of the Laws relating to Marriage, Bastardy, Infants, Ideots, Lunaticks.V. Of the Liberty of the Subject, Mag|na Charta, the Habeas Corpus Act, and other Statutes.VI. Of the King and his Prerogative, the Queen and Prince, Peers, Judges, Sheriffs, Coroners, Justices of Peace, Constables, &c.VII. Of publick Offences, Treason, Murder, Felony, Burglary, Robbery, Rape, Sodomy, Forgery, Perjury, &c. And their Punishment.All of them so plainly treated of, that all Manner of Persons may be particularly aquainted with our LAWS and STATUTES, concerning Civil and Criminal Affairs, and know how to defend Themselves and their Estates and Fortunes,
In all Cases whatsoever.
The Seventh Edition, corrected and improved, with many Additions, from Lord Raymond, Comyn, Strange, Foster, and with the Statute Law down to 4 Geo. 3. inclusive.
NEW-YORK: Printed by HUGH GAINE, Printer, Bookseller and Stationer at the Bible and Crown, in Hanover-Square, M,DCC,LXVIII.
To the Right Honourable THOMAS Lord Viscount GAGE.My Lord,IT may at first view seem a little presuming in me, to dedicate a plain law-treatise to a polite nobleman, such as your lord|ship; but this will be easily reconciled, when 'tis considered, the subject of our law, cannot be made too familiar to the greatest personages, as they live under it's protection, and are by it defend|ed in their rights and properties.
In this address to your lordship, where virtues are so very con|spicuous, extraordinary encomiums may be well expected; and I fear I shall require your lordship's pardon for my defects; I shall however presume to observe to you, if generosity and greatness of mind, superior sense, learning and judgment, the noblest oeco|nomy, and finest behaviour, with the most entensive publick spirit, are excellencies which deservedly raise a person to titles and honours, they ever belong to your lordship as their possessor.
These great qualities and accomplishments, my lord, shine forth in you, who are universally known and admired; and that you may live long an ornament to your country, attended with prosperity and every satisfaction, is the real wish of,
My Lord,Your Lordship's Most Obedient, and Most devoted Humble Servant, G. J.PREFACE.IN