A motion against imprisonment, vvherein is proved that imprisonment for debt is against the Gospel, against the good of Church, and Commonwealth / by Thomas Grantham, Master in Arts; curate of Eston, neere Tocester in Northampton-sheire..


A MOTION AGAINST Imprisonment, Wherein is proved that Imprisonment for debt is against the Gospel, against the good of Church, and Common∣wealth
MATTHEVV 18. 29.Have patience and I will pay thee all.By Thomas Grantham, Master in Arts; Curate of Eston, neere Tocester in Northampton-sheire.
PRINTED at London for Francis Coules 1642.
A Motion against Imprison∣ment.AMongst the great abuses of this age, I have taken into Consideration, that cruell, and inhuman act of imprison∣ing men for debt: and my harty wish∣es are: that this Tyrany may no long∣er raigne, for these reasons.
First it is against the law of God Deu: 24. 12 if the man be poore thou shalt not sleepe with his pledge, in any case thou shalt deliver him the pledg againe, when the sunne goeth downe, but imprison∣ment is a farr greater affliction, or torment, then keeping of a pledge, therfore if I ought not to doe the lesser, I ought not to doe the greater, a man was bound by the l•w of God to lend his brother suffi∣cient for his need, although he was sure to loose it Deut: 15. 7. 8. and in the 9 verse, It was sinn unto him, if he did it not then how great sinne shall it be: to deprive his Brother of all wayes to live by im∣prisoning of him?
Then every seaventh yeare was a yeare of rel•ase a free forgivenesse of all debts Deu. 15. 1. then every fifteth yeare was a Iubile, every mans posse•si•n re∣turned to him againe Leviticus 25. 10. Gods law was full of mercy to the very strangers that dwelt a∣mongst them Deu: 24. 19. the lost sheafe was for the stranger, Fatherlesse and widdow, then verse the

20. of that Chapter the Olive tree was to be beaten but once, & the remnant to be left for the stranger, Fatherlesse and widdow, and in the next verse he was to do so when he gathred the grapes of his vin∣yard He that takes the nether milston, takes a mans life to pledge Deut: 24. 6. but he that imprisons a man takes not only the nether milstone, but the up∣per, he takes away all courses of liveing for a man, hath no wayes to grind or labour for his living then he was not to take the widdows rayment to pledge much lesse her body Deut: 24. 27. Gods law is full of mercy, Exodus 22. 25. 29 27. and Deut. 15. 13. 14 15. and many other places.
Then this Tyrany of imprisonment is against the Gospell, our saviour tels you Mat: 8. 32. how hee was vsed that tooke his fellow servant by the throat and cast him into prison, and in this last verse he tells you his heavenly father will do so to those who will not forgive their debtors, the Apostle saith Romans 13. 10. that love is the fulfilling of the law, and he gives there the reason because it workes not ill to his neighbour, now how farr is that man from obey∣ing Gods law that doth so great a hurt to his neigh∣bour as to