A very mery and pleasaunt historie done not long since, in this realm of England written in Latine by Erasmus of Roterodame, dialoguewise, vnder the title of A coniuration or spirite ; newly translated into English, by Thomas Iohnson.


A very mery and plea∣saunt Historie done not long since, in this realm of England. Written in Latine by Erasmus of R•terodame, Dialoguewise, vn∣der the title of a Coniu∣ration or Spirite.
Newly translated into English, by Thomas Iohnson.
 [illustration] 
Imprinted at London, by Henrie Bynneman, for William Pickring. ANNO DOMINI. 1567.
〈1+ pages missing〉from the bridge the waye leadeth into the playne fielde.
Thomas.I remembre it well.
Anthonie.Of late a rumoure was spread among the husbandmē of those quarters, that bysides this bridge ther walked a certaine Spirite, whose mi∣serable howlings were sundry tymes hearde: which they thought to be the soule of some man in those places tor∣mented with most cruel punishments.
Thomas.Who was the authour of this rumour?
Anthonie.Who but Pole? and this was the preface of his Enterlude.
Thomas.What came in his mynde to fayne this.
Anthonie.I wot nere, but that such is the mās nature, desirous to deceiue the foolish people, by such sort of delu∣sions. I will shew you what like prāk he hath playd• of late. We rode a good companie of vs togither to Richmond, wherof there were some, whome you would haue sworne, had ben both tall and stutdy fellows. The wether was
very fayre, neither appered there any little clowde in the Skie. There Pole casting his eyes vp towardes heauen: blessed all his face and shoulders with the signe of the Crosse, and fayning in his countenāce, as though he had ben afrayde, these words he spake to hym selfe: O immortall God, what doe I sée? and beyng demaunded of those that rode next vnto him what it was: Agayne, makyng a greater crosse: O merciful God, I beséech thée (quod he) take away from myne eyes this terri∣ble sight. Whē they desirous to know what it was, moste instantly required him to declare the vision, he castyng his eyes intentiuely vp agayn towar∣des heauen, and there with his fynger pointyng to one place: Sée you not yonder (quod he) an vgly Dragon, ar∣med with light burning hornes, and a winding taile? Which when they de∣nied that they sawe it: againe he had they shoulde beholde more earnestly, ofte poyntyng with his finger also to the place, vntill at length an other of
the company, lest he should séeme that he could sée but a little, sayd also that be sawe it. Lykewise did one or. ij. o∣ther, for they were ashamed not to sée that which was so euident. But what néede many words? within. iij. dayes the rumour had persuaded all Englād that there appered such a Monster. A wonder it was howe the report of the people had augmented the fable, ney∣ther lacked there such as wold in ear∣nest expound what this horrible sight portended. Whose follie he much re∣ioyced at, who was the Inuenter of the argument.
Thomas.I know wel the mās wit, but r