An account of the sufferings of Richard Seller, of Keinsey, a fisherman, who was pressed in Scarborough-Piers, in the time of the two last engagements between the Dutch and English, in the year 1665.


AN ACCOUNT OF THE SUFFERINGS OF RICHARD SELLER, Of KEINSEY, a FISHERMAN, Who was pressed in SCARBOROUGH-PIERS, in the Time of the two last Engagements between the Dutch and English, in the Year 1665.
PHILADELPHIA: Printed and Sold by JOSEPH CRUKSHANK, in Third-street, opposite the Work-House, M DCC LXXII.
AN ACCOUNT OF THE SUFFERINGS OF RICHARD SELLER.These are (says the Writer) the very words that proceeded from him, who sat before me weep|ing, which are as follows,
I WAS pressed in Scarborough-Piers, and refusing to go on board the Ketch, they beat me very sore on the sand, and I refusing to go on board, they hoised me in with a tackle, on board of the Ketch that pressed for the ship called the Royal-Prince, and they bunched me with their feet, that I fell into a tub, and was so maimed, that they were forced to swaddle me up with clothes: From thence we sailed into Brid|lington-Bay, where Thomas Swailes and Mary Stranger hearing of me, sent me victuals on board of the Ketch; then we sailed to the Buoy
and Nore, where they hauled me in at a gun-port, on board of the ship called the Royal-Prince. The 1st day of the third month they commanded me to go to work at the Capstane; I refused, and told them, that As I was not free to do the King's work, I would not live at his charge for victuals? then the Boatswain's mate beat me sore, and thrusting me about with the capstane till he was weary. Then the Captain sent for me upon the quarter-deck, and asked me, Why I refused to fight for the King, and why I re|fused to eat of his victuals? I told him, I was afraid to offend God, for my warfare was Spiri|tual, therefore I durst not fight with carnal wea|pons. Then he fell upon me and beat me with his small cane, then called for his great cane, and beat me sore, and felled me down to the deck three or four times, and beat me as long as his strength continued. Then came one Thomas Horner, (who was brought up at Easington) and said, I pray you, Noble Cap|tain, be merciful, for I know him to be an ho|nest man, and a good man, Then said the Captain, He is a Quaker, I will beat his brains out; then falling on me again, he beat me till he was weary; then called some to help him, for, said he, I am not able to beat him enough to make him willing to do the King's service. Then came out the Commander's Jester, and told the Captain, He would lay a guinea with him that he would make me work,

and hale the King's ropes, and told the Cap|tain, he was a fool; so two guineas were thrown down upon the deck, then the Jes|ter called for two seamen, and made them make two ropes fast to the wrists of my arms, and reeved the ropes through two blocks in the mizen-shrouds, on the star|board-side, and hoised me up aloft, and made the ropes fast to the gunnel of the ship, and I hung