The grand case of subjection to the higher powers in matters of religion resolved to which is added an appendix to a late book intituled A plea for liberty of conscience, wherein the kings supream power in ecclesiastical matters is asserted ... / by James Jones, a Protestant-dissenter, and now a prisoner in Woodstreet-compter for nonconformity.


The Grand CASE OF SUBJECTION TO THE Higher Powers, IN MATTERS of RELIGION, RESOLVED.
To which is Added, An APPENDIX To a Late Book, Intituled, A PLEA for LIBERTY of CONSCIENCE: WHEREIN The Kings Supream Power in Ecclesiastical Matters, Is Asserted; Humbly Shewing that the Kings Majesty hath Royal Power Sufficient to Perform his Royal Promise, for Liberty of Conscience.
By JAMES JONES, a Protestant-Dissenter, and now a Pri∣soner in Woodstreet-Compter for Nonconformity.
PSAL. 105.20.The King sent and loosed him: Even the Ruler of the People, and let him go free.
ECCLES. 1.9.The thing that hath been, it is that which shall be; and that which is done, is that which shall be done; and there is no New thing under the Sun.
LONDON: Printed by George Larkin, at the lower End of Broadstreet, next to London-Wall. 1684.
THE Grand Case OF SUBJECTION TO The Higher Powers, IN MATTERS of RELIGION, Resolved.FOrasmuch as great Contention hath been, and still is, among Chri∣stians, Concerning a Right Subjection to the higher Powers, in Mat∣ters of Religion; All those Princes and States who by the Divine Pro∣vidence, have the Supream Government in their Respective Domi∣nions, making such Demands of Subjection from their Subjects, in Matters of Religion, as they cannot conscientiously Conform unto, in which they do not only Plead the Power of their own Laws, but would fain urge some∣thing from Divine Authority, that so Persons may yield Obedience unto them in their Established Worship, as a bounden Duty unto God; There∣fore, the following Discourse upon this Subject, is Humbly Offered to the Consideration of all Rational and Conscientious Persons, of whatsoever sort or degree amongst Mankind; which shall be endeavoured in a Satisfactory Answer to the following Questions.
Quest. I.Whether all sorts of Persons whatsoever, are bound to Conform to what∣soever Worship is or may be Established by the higher Powers in their several Dominions; Because the Holy Apostle Paul in Rom. 13.1. saith thus: Let every Soul be subject to the Higher Powers; for, there is no Power but of God; the Powers that be, are Ordained of God?
Answer.To which I Answer, Conformity to Every Established Worship, cannot be the meaning of the Apostle in this Text; as shall be soberly demonstrated by the Reasons following:
First, Because then the Christian Religion would utterly cease in all those Countreys in which the contrary Religion is Established, and that by the Consent of the Christians themselves, who in Point of duty, must relin∣quish the Profession and Practice of the Christian Religion, and imbrace a Religion Contrary to it, because it is Required by