Pneumatou diakonia, or, Gospel-churches a standing ordinance of Jesus Christ to continue to his next personal glorious coming, plainly proved : objections particularly answer'd / by an unworthy servant ... R.B.


Πνεύματος Διακονία: OR, Gospel-Churches, A Standing ORDINANCE OF Jesus Christ, TO Continue to His next Personal Glorious Coming, plainly Proved; Objections particularly Answer'd.
By an unworthy servant of Jesus Christ, a Mourner in Sion for the Divisions thereof; who waits for the day of the Son of Man, R.B.
Mat. 16.18.Ʋpon this Rock will I build my Church: And the gates of Hell shall not prevail against it.
1. Cor. 11.26.As often as ye eat this Bread, and drink this Cup, ye do shew the Lord's Death till HE COME.
Eph. 3.21.Ʋnto him be glory in the CHƲRCH—throughout all Ages—
London, Printed by T.M. for Tho. Parkhurst at the Bible and Three Crowns in Cheapside, near Mercers Chappel, 1682.
TO THE READER.Christian Reader,IF thou intendest a serious perusal of the ensuing Treatise, 'twill not be amiss to stay a while at the Portal. 'Tis now two full years, and up∣ward, since it was fitted for the Press, the Re∣mora's of its publication are needless to menti∣on to thee. It hath in that time been frequently given up to the Lord, and the service of his Churches; with earnest cries to him, who Ministers Seed to the Sower, and makes the Seed sown to prosper, that it may be blessed for some Spiritual advantage to them that truly fear him, whe∣ther in, or out of the Churches of Christ. What of the leadings, help, of the Lord an unworthy dust hath had in the managery of this Work from first to last, is not needful to be mentioned. This I think meet to say to the praise of match-less Grace, that I have not been altogether without them, and in some things, such clear openings, as I never had before. All is submitted to the Judgment of the truly Judicious; and if the least be contributed for the establish∣ment of the Lords Children (the weakest of them) in the Path, and way of the Gospel, let him have the Glory, I obtain the end aimed at. The Reasons of the present un∣dertake are too many to give an account of. I know none that have ex professo handled this Subject. 'Tis true, the Lear∣ned Dr. Owen, some while-since (and long after this was finished for the Press) hath writ much in a little, touching it: but he tells us, he only debates it 〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉, in passage. There

have been, and still are, some that openly oppose this way of the Gospel, upon various accounts: Of which (at least some of them) we give particular notice. That in every Ge∣neration, Satan hath set himself against the Churches of Christ, since they have had a being in the World, none are ignorant of, who have thought it any part of their concern to enquire into these matters. Many wayes he hath taken to eradicate, root them out; and hath by some of those wayes, greatly disturbed, perplexed, shaken them. As,
1. Sore, great Persecutions, hath he oft raised against them fro