The copie of a letter, sent to the ladye Mary dowagire, Regent of Scotland, by Iohn Knox in the yeare. 1556. Here is also a notable sermon, made by the sayde Iohn Knox, wherin is euydentlye proued that the masse is and alwayes hath ben abhominable before God and idolatrye


The copie of a letter / sent to the ladye Mary dowagire, Regent of Scotland, by Iohn Knox in the yeare. 1556.
¶ Here is also a notable sermon, made by the sayde Iohn Knox, wherin is euydentlye pro∣ued that the masse is and 〈…〉 ben abhomina∣ble before God and Idoe∣latrye.
Scrutamini Scripturas
 [illustration]  [coat of arms or blazon] 
To the ex∣cellent lady Mary Dougiare Regent of Scotland hir hūble subiect Iohn Knox wi∣sheth grace, mercy and peace frō god y• father of oure lord Iesus Christ with the spirite of perfect iudgement.THe eternall prouidence of the euerlyuynge god hath appointed his cho∣sen children, to fight in this wretched and transi∣tory lyfe a battel difficil, and the manner of their preseruation in y• sāe battel to be more meruelous. Their victory standeth not in re∣sisting, but in suffering. And how▪

they c•be preserued & not brogh• to vttermoste confusiō the eye of man perceyueth not: but whose power is infinite by secrete and hidde motions toucheth the har∣tes of such as to mans iudgment haue power to destroye them, of very pitie and compassion to saue his people. As he dyd the hartes of y• egyptian mydwyues to pre∣serue the men children of y• Israe∣lites, when precept was geuen by Pharao of their destruction. The harte of Pharaos doghter to pitie Morses, in his young infancy ex∣poned to the danger of waters. The harte of Mabuchodonasat to preserue the captyues alyue, and liberally to norishe the chil∣dren that were founde apte to let∣tres. And fynally y• harte of Cy∣rus to sert at libertye y• people of god after long bōdage and thral∣•on: and thus doeth the inuisible

power, and loue of god, manifest it selfe towardes his elect frome tyme to time for two causes: first to comforte his weate warryors, in their manifolde temptations: letting theym to vnderstāde, that he is able to cōpell suche, as some tyme were eneme is to his people, to fight in their cause. And also (as by his prophet Esaie he doth promyse) to promote their dely∣ueraūce. And secondarily to gyue a testimony of his fauour to thē that by all apperance did lyue be∣fore (as Gaint Paule speateth) wāting god in y• world, strāgers from the common wealth of Isra¦el, and wythoute the legue of his mercy full promes, and free grace made to his church, for who could haue affirmed that one of these persones a fore named, or yet Ra∣hab had ben so louing, faithful & gentle before that occasion was

offered vnto theym to manifeste theym nature and clemency• But the wortes of mercye, shewed to the afflicted, haue l•s• to vs assu∣rances, that God vsed theym as vessels of his honor. For pitie and mercy shewed•▪ to his afflicted flocke, as they neuer lacked re∣ward temporal, •o if they be con∣ty•ew