A sermon of simonie and sacriledge preached at Pauls Crosse March 18: by Roger Fenton preacher of Graise Inne.


A SERMON of Simonie and Sacriledge, Preached at Pauls Crosse March 18: By ROGER FENTON Preacher of Graise Inne.
 [illustration] 
LONDON Printed by Arnold Hatfield.
1604.
To the right ho∣norable Sir THOMAS EGERTON, knight, Lord Chauncelour of England my verie singular good Lord.RIght hono∣rable, I am inioyned, by that re∣uerend authority which in al duty I stand bound to obey, to publish
 these small endeuors: which albeit they may passe inuisibly vnregar∣ded of the meanest, be∣cause they are so small; yet the subiect requi∣reth the Patronage of the most honourable. Not that it is a contro∣uersie (for amongst wri∣ters I finde not mine ad∣uersarie) but because if actions interpret mens minds, the most part of the world be against me. Such is our conflict
 while we vse the sword of the spirit. Manie re∣spects haue mooued and incouraged me to craue your Lordships Patronage. Your inte∣gritie, who I persuade my soule may safelie wash your handes of these spoiles. Your ho∣norable place and au∣thoritie, in whose pow∣er it is to cherish the tribe of Leui, and pro∣tect a great part of our bodie. Your loue and
 affection extending it selfe to manie woorthie members of the same. My duty, your vnwor∣thie Chaplaine, who if I should signifie to the world what incourage∣ments I haue receaued from your Honour, it might seeme in mee ostentation, as if I de∣serued somwhat. Then let that fauorable coun∣tenance which hath e∣uer shined vpon Scho∣lars, vouchsafe the ac∣ceptance
 of a simple Scholars mite, for want of larger offrings. Ac∣cept this little testimo∣nie of my greater de∣sires, who shall neuer cease to offer vp praiers vnto God for all such blessings & happinesse vpon you, and your honourable family on earth, as may bee vn∣doubted fore-runners of your heauenly blisse.
Your Lordships most bounden and dutifull Chaplaine, ROGER FENTON.PROV. 20. 25.It is a snare for a man to de∣uoure that which is sancti∣fied, and after the vowes to enquire.MY Authour telleth mee in the fiue and twen∣tieth chap∣ter of this booke the ele∣uenth verse, That A word spoken in his place, is like ap∣ples of golde with pictures of siluer. That is, as the outside
 is beautifull, so the inside is far more precious, as gold excelleth siluer. So are the words of Wisdome euerie where glorious: yet being fitted with time and place they haue an inward and se∣cret operation farre more forcible and effectuall than otherwise they would, they be apples of golde with pi∣ctures of siluer. Now as these siluer pictures, I mean the ornaments of speech are not to be neglected (e∣specially in these honoura∣ble assemblies) so the gol∣den substance which by a secret operation is directed to the heart & conscience
 is euery where to be prefer∣red. Wherefore when I gaue all diligence to speake vnto you (right honorable &c.) not onely things pro∣fitable for Christians, but seasonable for time and p