Orders set downe and allowed by the Lordes of her Maiesties priuie counsell, and appoynted to be put in print for the postes betweene London, and the borders of Scotland. At Westminster the fourteenth of Iannary. 1583.


Orders set downe and allowed by the Lordes of her Maiesties priuie counsell, and appoynted to be put in print for the Postes betweene London, and the borders of Scotland.At Westminster the fourteenth of Iannary. 1583.FOr the anoyding of sundry inconueniences happening by the ouergreat libertie of late vsed in riding poste, and for the easing of diuers her Maiesties good subiects, greatly complayning to haue bene thereby oppressed, & for sundrie other good considerations, the Lords of her Ma∣iesties most honourable priuie Counsel, haue set downe and established these orders following, straightly charging and commaunding in her Maiesties name and behalfe, aswel the Ma∣ster of the Postes, as all other Iustices of the peace, Maiors, Sheriffes, Bayliffes, Consta∣bles, Headboroughes, and all other persons whatsoeuer, to see the same duely obserued and kept in al places, as they and euery of them tender her Maiesties seruice, and at their perils wil answere to the contrary.
Inprimis, if any man hauing the place & name of an ordinary Poste, shall not reside and dwell vpon the same charge himselfe in person, but execute the same by a Deputie, the Ma∣ster of the poste shall forthwith remoue him, and take order for the placing of a sufficient man in his roome.
Item, that it shall not be lawfull for any man ryding in post by commission, to take his 〈…〉 any man, but of the ordinarie and standing postes, or at their appointment: whose commission ought to bee sig∣〈…〉xt by her Maiestie, three of her highnesse counsel, the Lorde Treasurour of England, the Earle Marshall of Eng∣••nde Lord gouernour of Barwicke or his deputie, the Lord president of the North or his deputie, the Wardens of the 〈◊〉 marches, her Maiesties Secritarie, & the master of the Postes.
Item that euery one so ryding poste by commission for her Maiesties seruice and affaires, shal pay one pennie, halfe 〈◊〉 the mile, but whoseouer vpon any busines vrgent shal be occasioned to ryde in poste without comission, he shalbe like∣••••••••…sed by the standing poste of the place or by his appointment. And of euery such, for their reliefe, it shalbe lawfull for 〈◊〉 to take after the rate of two pence the myle.
Item, to this ende, euery post shall be bounde to keepe a faire paper booke wel bound, to register the names of all men •••••g in post, with the number of their horses, and date of the commission, as well without commission as with commis∣•••.
Item, if in case that currers shall come so thicke or in such number, that the postes owne furniture shall not bee able to 〈◊〉 then it shall be lawfull for him to take vp, or appoint such as haue horses to hire, to supply his want: And to this end 〈…〉 be assisted by the Maiors, Constables, & other officers, taking in those cases for the hire o