Utrum horum, or, The nine and thirty articles of the Church of England, at large recited, and compared with the doctrines of those commonly called Presbyterians on the one side, and the tenets of the Church of Rome on the other both faithfully quoted from their own most approved authors / by Hen. Care.


Utrum Horum: OR, THE Nine nd Thirty Artiles OF THE CHURCH of ENGLAND, At lrge reited; And ompred with the DOCTRINES of those ommonly lled PRESBYTERIANS On the one side; And the Tenets of the Churh of Rome On the other.
Both fithfully quoted from their own most pproved Authors.
By Hen. Cre.
Rituum vriets Eles•e unittem non tollit; Modò Fi∣deles seundum ndem Dotrine Regulm mulent.D. Elis. in Liro ui Titulus, Defensio Fidei, p. 130.LONDON: Printed for R. Jnewy, in Queens-Hed-Alley, in Pternoster-Row, 1682.
 [illustrtion] 
TO THE READER.'TIS ovious, Tht the Popish Interest hth of lte yers regin'd muh Ground, nd is not  little enlrg'd nd strengthen'd in the World; s well y the Indeftigle Industry of their Priests nd Jesuits, the unneess∣ry feuds mongst the Reform'd, nd the unhppy Wrs etween Protestnt Prines nd Sttes, s more espeilly y the growing gretness of the Frenh Monrh (who now t lst would o∣lour his Instite ims t Glory nd Em∣pire y pretentions of propgting the Romn Religion; nd hopes therey not only to engge ll the Pontifiil Clergy in fvour of his Designs, ut

lso to Atone for ll the Blood nd Deso∣ltion, wherin he hth involv'd Chri∣stendom; If the extirption of wht they ll HERESIE, my ut e one of the Consequents ttending the Suess of his Arms) In prtiulr, 'tis no less notorious, Tht these King∣doms of Gret Brittin nd Irelnd, lour t present under  Popish Conspiry, whih y Supreme Autho∣rity hs more thn one (nd sure not inonsidertely, or in Jest) een delr'd HORRID nd DAMNABLE;  min Brnh nd Mster-wheel of whih, hs een suffiiently prov'd to e  Design of dividing nd emroiling us mongst our selves.
To effet whih, oserving tht the Body of the people of Englnd, though generlly greeing in ll ne∣essry points of Christin Dotrine; do yet onsist (in nother respet) of two Sorts.
1. Those tht hve  Venertion for the Elesistil Rites nd Ceremo∣nies retin'd y our first Reformers, rther perhps for prudentil Resons

suitle to tht Junture, thn for ∣ny Apprehensions they hd tht the sme were lwys oliging; s the A∣postles (in the first, nd possily only unerring Counil tht ever ws held) thought fit to ution their new Con∣verts for voiding of sndl to the Jews, nd hindrne of propgting the Gospel, to stin from Blood nd things strngled, whih yet few Chri∣stins t this dy, or for mny hun∣dred yers pst, hve thought neess∣ry to oserve.
2. Those tht ommending nd lessing God for the hppy Lours of those our pious Anestours, who in their dy went so fr, do yet in this Age of Light (nd when Complines with Ceremonies, tht my ut seem suspi∣ious or unwrrntle, re neither dvntgeous nor Convenient for d∣vning the gret Ends of Christini∣ty, ut rther the ontrry) deline to join therein, nd nnot