Nevves from the siege before Yorke.:  Being a letter from an eminent person out of the Leaguer there; dated the 16. of June. 1644. Together with the articles for the rendring of it up, which were interchangably propounded and sent on both sides. Authorized according to order.


NEVVES From the Siege before YORKE.
BEING A Letter from an eminent person out of the Leaguer there; dated the 16. of June. 1644.
TOGETHER With the Articles for the ren∣dring of it up, which were inter∣changably propounded and sent on both sides.
Authorized according to Order.

LONDON, Printed by M. O. for H. S. Iune, 24. 1644.
A LETTER from an Eminent Personage at the Leagure before Yorke, dated there the 16. of June. 1644.UPon Friday morning early the Marquesse New-castle wrote to our Generals offering a Parley to begin that after-noone at three a clock, and to continue till eight at night, and a cessation of Armes for three houres before, and three houres after to be held in Tent without the Wals, betwixt our Fort and theirs; with a •…i•a•ion of Guards, to such number and distance as should be •…se and necessarie: he named for Commissioners onely to treat •or himselfe. The Lord Widrington, Sir Thomas Glemham, Sir •ichard Hutton, Sir William Wentworth, Sir Robert Strickland,•ir Thomas Mesham, and Master Robert Rockley: Our Generalls accepted the offer in all poynts, and sent for them; the Earle of •indsey, the Lord Humby, Lieutenant Generall Baylie, Sir Wil∣liam Fairefax Colonell Hamond, Colonell Russell, and Colonell White: These fourteen met on Friday last, and the enemy pro∣pounded to our men certaine Articles which they brought in •n writing, but would not suffer our Commissioners to read nor other
〈1 page duplicate〉
coppy them. The Heads of them were such as appeare in t•• other P•p•r therewith sent. Our Commissioners propound to them also certaine conditions, the true Coppy whereof I se•… here also, offering a Coppy to the enemies to carry into York, be considered of, and after to return Answer. The enemies Com∣missioners would not accept the Paper, but scornfully & prou•∣ly said, They were below their condition, and much other pro•• language, which I c•nno• now write: so the Commissioners p••∣ted. But when Generall Lesley heard that the adversaries Commi∣sioners refused to take the Paper containing the Conditions; h• presently closed the Paper in a Letter to the Marquesse Now casile, and sent it by a Drum: Vnto which Letter and Pr•posi•∣ons the Marq New castle yesterday after-noon returned an An∣swer to this effect following. That our Generals pretending a de∣sire to prevent the effusion of bloud, had framed and rendred t• him such Conditions as neither he nor any man of Hono• with him could condiscend unto any one of them: yet he would still be teady to deliver up the Towne upon such terme as he had offered him by his Commissioners the day before So you see the businesse is now plainly left to be decided by th• Sword, of which the common Souldiers on out Party are