Posthuma Fosteri the description of a ruler, upon which is inscribed divers scales: and the uses thereof: invented and written by Mr. Samuel Foster, late professor of astronomie in Gresham-Colledg. By which the most usual propositions in astronomy, navigation, and dialling, are facily performed. Also, a further use of the said scales in deliniating of far declining dials; and of those that decline and recline, three severall wayes. With the deliniating of all horizontall dials, between 30 and 60 gr. of latitude, without drawing any lines but the houres themselves.


Posthuma Fosteri:
THE
DESCRIPTION
OF A
RULER,
Upon which is inscribed divers
SCALES:
AND
The Vses thereof:
Invented and written by
Mr. SAMVEL FOSTER,
Late Professor of ASTRONOMIE in
GRESHAM-COLLEDG.
By which the most usual Propositions in
Astronomy, Navigation, and Dialling, are facily
performed. Also, a further use of the said Scales in
delineating of far declining Dials; and of
those that Decline and Recline
three severall wayes.
With the delineating of all Horizontall Dials, between
30 and 60 gr. of Latitude, without drawing any lines
but the Houres themselves.
LONDON:
Printed by ROBERT & WILLIAM LEYBOURN, for
NICHOLAS BOURN, at the South entrance into
the Royall Exchange, 1654.
TO THE
READER.COURTEOUS READER,WE here present to
thy view, this
short TREATISE,
(written by that
learned Professor
of ASTRONOMIE
in Gresham Colledge, Mr. SAMUEL

FOSTER deceased) containing in
it the Description and Vse of certain
Lines to be put upon a streight Ru∣ler,
in the ready solution of many
necessary Questions, as well Geome∣tricall,
as belonging to Astronomie,
Navigation, and Dialling.
We should not thus hastily have
thrust this into the World without
its fellows, had we not been assuredly
informed that some people, greedy
rather of unjust gain to themselves,
then with honesty to sit still, had pre∣pared
one for the Presse, from a spu∣rious
and imperfect Copie, both to the
abuse of thee, and discredit of the in∣dustrious
Author: who had he thought

such things as these worthy him or the
Presse, could have daily cram'd thee
with them, to his own losse of time,
and thy satiety. However, such as it
now is, we assure thee was his own,
and doubt not, but thou wilt finde
it pleasant in the use, profitable to thee,
and portable in it selfe.
We thought fit farther to adver∣tise
thee, that there are abroad in par∣ticular
hands, imperfect Copies of some
other Treatises of the same Author:
Namely, An easie Geometrical way
of Dialling. Another most easie way
to project houre-lines upon all kinde
of Superficies, without respect had to
their standing, either in respect of De∣clination
or Inclination. A Quadrant
fitted with lines for the solution of
most Questions of the Sphere: with
some other things of the like nature.
We fear least sinister ends of some
mean Artists, or ignorant Mechanicks,
(for those of ingenuity in whose hands
they may be, we no way distrust) may
engage them to father these things as
their