The scheme of the subsequent discourse : an East-India trade is highly advantageous to the true interest of England


The Scheme of the Subsequent DISCOURSE. An EAST-INDIA Trade is Highly Advantageous to the True Interest of ENGLAND.1. It Occasioneth the Building and Employment of many good and great Ships, &c.
2. It Employeth a great Number of Seamen, and others; and causeth a great Expence of Provisions, &c.
3. It Exporteth great Quantities of our own Manufactures, and Native Commodities, &c.
4. It Importeth great Quantities of Necessary Commodities for our Use, Trade, and farther Transport, &c.
5. It highly Advanceth the Publick Customs and Revenue, &c.
6. It raiseth many English Merchants (Resident in India) to great Wealth, which is brought home, and dis∣pended here: And this chiefly ariseth from the Trade in India.
7. It is the Greatest and Richest Trade in the Universe; is Coveted by all Europaean Nations; Its Prosecution having been Eminently significant to the Grandeur, Strength, and Wealth of many Countries, as its Neg∣lect and Loss hath been to their Poverty and Contempt.
8. If Neglected by the English, would be Engrossed by the Dutch, and thereby make their Country to be t•… greatest (if not the sole) Mart of Europe.
9. It rendreth our Nation Honoured and Feared among Foraigners, and may conduce to the Propagation of t•… true Christian Religion, as well of our Language, good Laws, Manners, &c.
10. The Improvement of this our Foraign Trade is very Instrumental for the Improvement of our Lands, and all great Works of Piety and Magnificence; As also for our Instruction in all their Foraign Arts, Scienc•… and Languages.
But Manageable.1. Not by a Free and Open Trade.I. In Reference to the Natives.1. IN those vast and various Regions are many distinct Kings and Princes, who Act by the Dictates of their own Arbitrary Will, without any fixt Laws; are by Religion, Pagans, or Mahu∣metans; and apt to Depraedate, Murder, and Destroy upon any small Offence, or pretended Fault.
2. All the Governments in India are Absolutely Monarchical (if not Tyrannical) and value nothing but what cometh under that Notion in a single Person, or entire Body.
3. By the Standard-Laws of all those Countries, all Strangers that flye for Protection into any of those Regions, become Slaves to that Prince to whose Protection they flye. And in case of Ship∣wrack, all Ships, Goods, and People are a Prey to that Prince in whose Territories they met with with that Misfortune.
4. The Indian Kings are unable to Protect us against any Invasion by their Enemies, and yet ex∣pect we should supply them with Ships, Sloops, Ammunition, &c.
5. The Monsons (or Trade-Winds) being only two (against which it is dangerous, if not impossi∣ble, to Navigate) If our Ships should by distress of Weather, be forced into any strange Port, they will run an inevitable hazard by the Treachery and Subtilty of the Natives.
6. Those Kings being Arbitrary in their Powers, exact Customs at pleasure, eithe