None but Christ. A discourse on John VI. 67, 68. Preached privately to a religious society in Say-Brook. / By Azariah Mather, A.M. Pastor of the Church there. : [Seven lines of Scripture texts]


None but CHRIST. A Discourse On JOHN VI. 67, 68. Preach'd Privately, TO A RELIGIOUS SOCIETY in SAY-BROOK.
By Azariah Mather, A.M. Pastor of the Church there.
Joh. xiv. 6.I am the Way, and the Truth and the Life.
Acts iv. 10, 12.Be it known unto you all, and to all the People of Israel, that by the Name of JESUS CHRIST of Nazareth— Neither is there Salvation in any Other: for there is none other Name under Heaven given among men whereby we must be Saved.
New-London, Printed & Sold by T. Green, 1722.
None but CHRIST.JOHN VI. 67, 68.Then said JESƲS unto the Twelve, Will Ye also go away?
Then Simon Peter answered Him, LORD, TO WHOM SHALL WE GO? Thou hast the Words of Eternal Life.
WE find in the 66th. Verse of this Chapter, That many of CHRIST's fol|lowers forsook him, and went away; they turn'd their backs upon him & became Apostates; The occasion thereof we find in the forego|ing Verses; they stumbled at his Doctrine:

they were prejudiced at his Sermon: He had told them in the foregoing Verses, that He was the Bread of life; and that unless they ate His Flesh and drank His Blood, they had no life: That is, they neither had any Spiritual Life then, nor should they have Eternal Life here|after. They taking these words to be meant Carnally & Literally, not Spiritually, stumb|led thereat. And when Jesus saw that some of His own Disciples misunderstood him, He proceeds to Enlighten them, v. 61. telling 'em He meant eating of His Flesh & drinking of His Blood, to be after a Spiritual manner, Ver. 63. That it is the Spirit that quickneth and not the Flesh; and His words were Spiritual, i. e. to be understood after a Spiritual manner. After which He told them he knew well that there were some that did not receive the Truth, and would not Believe, Ver. 64. And in Ver. 65. He gives one reason of it, viz. It was not given them of the Father; telling them if the mighty Power of God did not Enlighten their Understanding, quicken their dead Souls, draw them with a sweet, yet holy Violence (as it were) they would not, could not come unto the Son; which was farther offensive still, as the like Doctrine is to Arminians to this Day. Upon this they Revolted, and this was the occasion of their Backsliding; therefore it is said, From

that time many of His Disciples went back and walked no more with Him; forsook Him, and never returned to follow Him any more.
Upon this the Lord JESUS took occasion to speak to His Disciples, that is the Twelve (being full of Pity and Compassion,) He seeing many turn their backs, turned about to those who remained; and in a very pa|thetical Heart-affecting manner, saith, Will ye go away also? Ye that are my Disciples! It is no great wonder to see such and such go away, but will YE also go away that have been so near and so dear to me? Will ye g