Mr. Speakers letter to the Kings most excellent Majestie, Febr. 16, 1641 concerning the great affayres, and state of the kingdome.


Mr. SPEAKERS LETTER To the Kings most Ex∣cellent Majestie, Febr. 16. 1641.
Concerning the great Affayres, and State of the Kingdome.
 [illustration] HONI SOIT QVI MAL L Y PENSECR [royal blazon or coat of arms] 
London, Printed for Iohn Thomas, 1641.
The Speakers Letter of the House of Commons to the Kings most Excellent Majestie, February the 12. 1641.SIR,BEsides my sorrowes (which pressed me very sore, and remaineth still upon me) the trou∣bles and griefe that fell upon me for the la∣mentable breaches in Church and State, and for your Sacred Majesty & hopefull offspring, filled up my sorrowes, and in my thoughts J was grieved that those feares and Desolations fell out in your dayes, I confesse, charity suspects not, and the best minds thinkes the least hurt, and the freer a man is, from vice in himselfe, the more charitable he is of others, and this is that which hath proved (formerly prejudiciall to your Majesty, but had your Majesty been the first, or the best, that had bin in∣stead, misinformed, or ill rewarded it would be an hard thing to command patience, but griefe is asswaged either by presiden•s, or examples. Jt is true of late dayes your Majesty being misin∣formed against some of your best subjects, your Majesty thought to have dealt with them, as Ioseph thought to have dealt with Marie, and so put them away farre from you, but with Marie they travailing as it were with child, and that that which they travailed withall might not appeare an illegitimate the onely wise God, sent as it were an Angell unto you, to let you see, that like Marie they being contracted unto you in love, they have not as yet defiled their Marriage Bed, but remaine like Marie faithfull to their Head and Soveraigne, and your Maje∣sty having beene formerly seduced by false opinions from o∣thers against them, J hope you will now be reduced unto them (and by them) by true perswasions, and that you may be so the

onely wise God that gave your Majesty your being, and so knew you better then your selfe, hath dealt with your Majesty, as he did with Adam in Paradise, and so hath provided you a meet helper, when with Adam you thought no need of it, now de∣sired it, and your Majesty yeelding as Adam did, (in sparing a superfluous Rib for to make him a meet helper) will become a great gainer, for your Majesty shall not onely loose those who may very well be spared, but you will gaine to your selfe and your posterity a meete helper, that will endeavour by all meanes that may be Lawfull to ease you of many burthens that other∣wise might have layne heavie upon you, and this helper is ma∣ny members of that body, whereof your Majesty is become the head▪ and considering their paines and labour in Love, you should doe them iniustice if you should suffer any for to accuse them, J hope there is none (or will be none) neere you (if neere you, yet dares no