The tryal and condemnation of Dr. Oliver Plunket, titular primate of Ireland, for high-treason at the barr of the Court of King's Bench at Westminster, in Trinity term, 1681.



THE TRYAL AND CONDEMNATION OF Dr OLIVER PLUNKET Titular PRIMATE of IRELAND, FOR HIGH-TREASON, At the Barr of the Court of King's Bench, at Westminster, in Trinity Term, 1681.
I do appoint Francis Tyton, and Thomas Basset, to Print the Tryal of Oliver Plunket.
Fr. Pemberton.
DUBLIN, Printed by Joseph Ray at Colledge-Green, for Eliphal Dobson Bookseller on Cork-hill. 1681.
The TRYAL and CONDEMNATION of Dr. OLIVER PLUNKET Titular Primate of IRELAND.THE Third of May 1681. in Easter 33. Carol. Secund. Reg. Dr. Oliver Plunket was arraigned at the Kings-Bench Bar for High Treason for endeavouring and compassing the Kings Death, and to levy War in Ireland, and to alter the Religion there, and to introduce a foreign Power, and at his Arraignment, before his Plea, he urged for himself, that he was indicted of the same High Treason in Ireland, and arraigned, and at the day for his Tryal the Wit∣nesses against him did not appear, and therefore he desired to know if he could be tried here for the same Fact? The Court told him, that by a Statute made in this Kingdom, he might be tried in the Court of Kings-Bench, or by Commission of Oyer and Terminer in any part of England, for Facts arising in Ireland, and that his Arraignment there (he being never tried upon it) was not sufficient to exempt him from being tried here; because till a Tryal be passed, and there be a Conviction or Acquittal thereupon, an Arraignment, barely, is no Plea: For in such Cases the party is not put twice in danger of his Life, which only is the thing the Law in such Cases looks after to prevent. He then desired time for his Witnesses, which they told him he could not do till after Plea pleaded; whereupon he pleaded Not Guilty, and put himself upon the Country for his Tryal; and after some consideration had about time to be allowed him to bring his Witnesses from Ireland, the Court appointed the day for his Tryal, to be the first Wednesday in next Term, which was full Five weeks time.
And accordingly on Wednesday the 8th. of June, in Trinity Term, he was brought to his Tryal, and Proclamation, as in such Cases is usual, being made, it proceeded thus.
Clerk. of Crown.Oliver Plunket, hold up thy Hand, those good men which thou shalt hear called and personally appear, are to pass between, &c.
Plunket.May it please your Lordship, I have been kept close Pri∣soner for a long time, a year and an half in Prison; when I came from Ireland hither, I was told by persons of good repute, and a Counsellour at Law, that I could not be tried here; and the reasons they gave me were, that first the Statute of Hen. 8. and all other Statutes made here, were not received in Ireland, unless there were an express mention made of Ireland in them: So that none were received there but such as were before Poyning's Act. So I came with that