The contents of the history of the five book's [sic] of Moses namely, Genesis. Exodus. Leviticus. Numbers. Deuteronomie. Collected and gathered in so many verses as there is chapters in each book very necessary and profitable for education of youth, & acquainting them so far with the Scripture. To which is added a considering-glass or contemplation, or spirituall poem upon the consideration thereof. By Roger Hough.


THE CONTENTS Of the History of the Five Book's of MOSES; Namely,
GENESIS.EXODUS.LEVITICUS.NUMBERS.DEUTERONOMIE.
Collected and gathered in so many Verses as there is Chapters in each Book very necessary and profitable for Education of youth, & acquain∣ting them so far with the Scripture.
To which is added a Considering-glass o• Con•emplation, or Spirituall Poem upon rhe Consideration thereo•.
By ROGER HOƲGH.
Proverbs 22.6. Train up a child in the way he shall go: and when he is old, he will not depart from it.London, Printed for T. Passenger, at the three Bibles on London-bridge. 1670.
〈1 page duplicate〉To the Reader, an Acrostical Epistle upon the name of the Author.
Reader I here present unto thy looks
Only the History of Moses: Book's
Given out in shadows as he saw,
Even by the Ceremonial, the Morall Law:
Record that Law, that's Moral in thy heart,

Have thou a care from it not to depart.
Only consider this my Aim and mind,
Unto each Verse a Chapter thou mayst find.
Gain thou by this my labour, what thou may,
However for thy profit I will pray.

Regard the glass wherewith my labour ends;
Here I present it to my Christian friends.
To all my dear Related and Christian Friends, to whose hands this small Labour of mine shall come. Grace, mercy and peace to you be multiplied.DEAR FRIENDS,UPon the serious consideration of that which the Lord spoke to us by Moses; touching our obedience to the Morall Law: How exact we should be to keep it in our hearts; and to teach it to our Children: Recorded for our learning in Deuteronomie Chap. 6. vers. 6, 7, 8, 9. And also our duty to command our Children to observe and do all the words of the Law Deut. 32.46. I here present you with a short narrative of the Contents of the History of the five Books of Moses, although in a plain and simple dresse; yet my de∣sign is that it may be usefull to all sorts of People, especially to young persons, that desire in obedience to set their faces towards Sion.
And although there is but a touch upon the Contents of the said Books, composed in so many verses as there is Chapters in each Book: yet
 upon the serious view of the Number of the verse thou readest, thou mayest turn thyself to the Scripture for thy satisfaction, and near or about that Chapter answerable to that verse in Num∣ber, thou mayest be hold the whole matter. If this poor Mite of myne, cast into the rich Treasury of this Kingdome, shall find acceptance of my Christian Friends, I shall accompt it as a rich honour from the God of all mercies, that hath so far inabled me in the work. And shall follow