Something in answer to Thomas Curtis and B.C.'s reasons why the meeting-house doors were shut up at Reading


Something in Answer to Thomas Curtis and B. C's Reasons why the Meeting-House Doors were shut up at Reading.Friendly Reader,FInding of late • Printed Paper spread abroad, in City and Country, with the Name of Thomas Curtis to the first part of it, and B. C. to the latter; wherein one of them pretends to give an account of the grounds upon which he intended to shut up the Publick Meeting-House Door, of the People called Quakers in Reading, and the other endeavours by certain Reasons to justifie and defend the doing thereof; We held our selves engaged in Christian duty to give an Answer thereto, for the Clearing of the Truth we profess, Vindica∣ting our selves in the profession thereof, and Undeceiving all such as through the false Insinuations in the said Paper either already are, or may be in danger to be deceived thereby.
The Paper says, It is publickly known in this Town (Reading) that a Difference is amongst the People call'd Quakers, as very frequently at our pub∣lick Meeting-House doth appear, to the dishonour of Almighty God, stum∣bling of the Weak, and grief of many tender hearted, that W. L. I. B. &c. do from time to time stir up Strife, by endeavouring the defama∣tion of their ancient Friends, rendering them to be departed from their first Principles, &c.
To which we answer in Truth and Plainness, that what T.〈◊〉 here charge upon us is indeed that which they themselves are guilty of, for it is too well known, that many Scandalous and Reproachful Books and Papers, have of late Years been Written, and Published in Print to the World by some of their party (as namely W. Rogers, F. Bugg, Tho. Crisp, S. Aldridge) greatly tending to the defamation of our an∣cient Friends in Truth, and rendering them to be departed from men first Principles, &c. This is too plain to be denyed, their Books and Papers being in Print, to be seen, and T. C. and others of party with him, being in too great measure gone into, & joyned with the same evil spirit of defamation, as those opposers of Friends and Truth are in,

have received, owned, dispersed or spread aborad those Books and Papers or some of them, of which we have often with grief com∣plained to them, before we appeared in that Testimony against them, of keeping on our Hats (which so much disturbs them) but could ob∣tain no satisfaction from them, although we plainly declared unto them, that if they continued in that spirit of Division, and to own and spread those ungodly scandalous Books, we should be necessiated to disown their Testimonies in our Meetings; so that indeed and in truth it is they that have endeavoured to defame the ancient Friends of Truth (and that publickly in Print) rendering them to be departed from their first Principles; it is they that in thus doing have stirred up Strife to the dishonour of Almighty-God, stumbling of the Weak, and grief of many tender hearted, and this bef