A letter, about the present state of Christianity, among the Christianized Indians of New-England. Written to the Honourable, Sir William Ashhurst, governour of the Corporation, for Propagating the Gospel among the Indians, in New-England, and Parts Adjacent, in America.


A LETTER, About the Present State of Christianity, among the Christianized INDIANS OF NEW-ENGLAND.
Written, To the HONOURABLE, Sir William Ashhurst, GOVERNOUR of the Corporation, for Propagating the GOSPEL among the Indians, in New-England, and Parts Adjacent, in America.
Boston, in N. E. Printed by Timothy Green. 1705.
A LETTER, To the Honourable, Sir WILLIAM ASHHƲRST, About the Present State of Christianity, among the Christianized Indians, of New-England.SIR,THE last Letter wherewith you Honoured us, Dated in August, gives us to un|derstand, how Acceptable it would be, to receive a fresh and late Account, of the Progress made in Evangelizing the poor Sal|vages in this Countrey: And we shall, as under all the Obligations imaginable to do it, Endeavour your satisfaction in a Point so worthy to be En|quird after; hoping that our Account may as Good News from a far Countrey, prove no ungrate|ful Entertainment.
In the Magnalia Christi Americana, or, History of New-England, Published at London, Two or Three Years ago, there is, The Life of our Me|morable ELIOT; In which there is a Letter to

Dr. Leusden, a Professor at Ʋtrecht, relating the Success of the Gospel among our Americans; and a full Commentary upon every Article of that Letter, declaring Who were Employ'd in that noble work, and How they managed it. And in another part of that Book, there is a long Chapter, Entituled, The Triumphs of Grace, or, A Narrative of the Success which the Gospel has had among the Indians of New-England; a Narrative, as well Attested as it is Remarkable. We shall not now Transcribe any Paragraphs of that History; because tis easy to have recourse unto it. But they that would insinuate, as if the People of our Profession, in America, (who are for Embracing & Diffusing, the Holy Religion of Christ, in the Original Purity wherein His Gospel has given it unto us, with|out Humane Additions and Inventions) did no|thing to Propagate the Religion we Profess, will there find a sufficient Confutation.
We will now proceed, where that History leaves off; and lay before your Honour, the pre|sent Circumstances of the Evangelical Work among our Indians.
There were in the Southern parts of this Pro|vince, about Four or Five Years ago, (when your Commissioners here sent a Couple of English Mi|nisters, who were Masters of the Indian Tongue, to visit them,) no less than Thirty several Con|gregations of Indians, who commonly Assembled every Lords Day, and a great part of them to
Lectures on other Dayes also, for the Worship of the Great GOD, and our Lord JESUS CHRIST. We cannot understand, That the Number of the Congregations, is considerably altered from what it was, when the Gentlemen, who then Examined their Con