The effect of certaine braunches of the statute made in anno xxxiii Hen. viii touching the maintenaunce of artillerie, and the punishment of suche as vse or maintayne vnlawfull games very necessarie to be put in execution.


❧ The effect of certaine braunches of the Statute made in Anno .xxxiii. Hen. viii. touching the maintenaunce of Artillerie, and the punishment of suche as vse or maintayne vnlawfull games, very necessarie to be put in execution.FIrst, that all fathers, gouernours, and rulers of such as be of tender age, do teache and bryng vp them in the knowledge of shooting: And that euery man, hauing a man chylde, or men chyldren in his house, shall pro∣uide, ordayne, and haue in his house for euery man chylde beyng of the age of .vii. yeres and aboue, tyll he shall come to the age of .xvii. yeres, a bowe and two shaftes, to induce and learne them and bryng them vp in shooting, and shall deliuer all the same bowe and arrowes to the same young men to vse and occupie: And if the same young men be seruaun∣tes, that then their maisters shall abate the money that they shall pay for the same bowes and arrowes, of their wages. And after all such young men shall come to the age of .xvii. yeres, euery of them shall prouide and haue a bowe and .iiii. arrowes, continually for hym selfe at his proper costes and charges, or els of the gyft or prouision of his frendes, and vse and occupie the same in shooting, as is before rehearsed. And if the maister suffer any of his ser∣uauntes taking wages, beyng in his housholde, and vnder the age of .xvii. yeres, or the father suffer any of his sonnes beyng in his housholde, and vnder the age of .xvii. yeres, to lacke a bowe and two arrowes, contrary to the fourme of this estatute, by the space of one moneth together: then the maister or father in whom suche negligence shalbe, shall for euery suche default forfaite. vi. s. viii. d. And that euery ser∣uaunt passing the age of .xvii. yeres, and vnder the age of .lx. yeres, and taking wages, whiche can or is able to shoote, and shall lacke a bowe and .iiii. arrowes by the space of one moneth together, shall for eue∣rye suche default forfaite and lose .vi. s. viii. d.
Item, that no person by him selfe, factor, deputie, seruaunt, or other person, shall for his or their gayne, lucre, or liuing, kepe, haue, holde, occupie, exercise, or mayntayne any common House, Alley, or place of Bowlyng, Coytyng, Cloise, Coiles, halfe Bowle, Tennis, Dising, Table or Carding, or any other maner of game prohibited by any statute heretofore made, or any vnlawfull newe game nowe in∣uented or made, or hereafter to be inuented, founde, had, or made, vpon payne to forfaite and pay for euery day keping, hauing, mayntayning, or suffering any suche game to be had, kept, executed, played, or mayntayned, within any suche House, Garden, Alley, or other place, contrary to the fourme and effect of this estatute .xl. s. and the players so taken, to pay for euery tyme .vi. s. viii. d.
Item, that the