A search for the English schismatick by the case and characters I. of the diocesan canoneers, II. of the present meer nonconformists : not as an accusation of the former, but a necessary defence of the later, so far as they are wrongfully accused and persecuted by them / by Richard Baxter ...


A SEARCH FOR THE English Schismatick: By the CASE and CHARACTERS, I. Of the Diocesan Canoneers. II. Of the Present Meer Nonconformists. Not as an Accusation of the former, but a Necessary Defence of the later, so far as they are wrongfully Accused and Persecuted by them.
By Richard Baxter, One of the Accused.
LONDON: Printed for Nevil Simmons, at the Sign of the ThreeGolden Cocks at the West-end of St. Pauls Church-Yard. 1681.
POSTSCRIPT.THE strivings of Parliaments since Archbishop Laud's Go∣vernment, against Innovations, Popery and Arbitrary over∣topping Law, and their jealousies of the designs and progress, while they themselves were of the Old Church of England, do call us to think what the difference was between the Old and New.
HE that would know what the Old Church of Eng∣land is, let him read,
I. The 39 Articles.II. The Homilies.III. The Apology, with Jewels defence.IV. Nowell's Catechism.V. Deus & Rex (all owned by the Church).VI. Hookers Ecclesiastical Polity, in 8 Books.VII. Bishop Bilson of Chri∣stian Subjection.VIII. Bishop Downham de Antichristo.IX. The great Writers a∣gainst Popery, as Dr. Whitaker, Dr. Reynolds, Dr. Willet, Dr. Sutliff, Dr. White, Dr. Airy, Dr. Humphrey, Dr. Fulk, Dr. Prideaux, Dr. R. Abbot, Dr. Crakenthorp, Dr. Challoner, Dr. Hall, Bishop Usher, Dr. Davenant, Bishop Carlton, Chil∣lingworth, Bishop Morton, &c.X. The Writings against Bi∣shop Laud, viz. Bishop Hall's Epistle to D. L. Archbishop G. Abbots, and Bishop R. Abbot's judgment of him, and his Tryal, with what was there charged against him.XI. The Harmony of Con∣fessions, and the Synod of Dort.XII. King James's Works.HE that would know what is the New Church of England, since Bishop Laud dif∣fers from the Old, let him read,
I. Dr. Heylin's Writings, Dr. Pocklingtons, Mr. Dows, Sybthorps and Mainwarings.II. Heylin's Life of B. Laud, particularly his description of the designed reconciliation with the Papists.III. Mr. Thorndike's Just weights and measures, and for∣bearance of Penalties.IV. Archbishop Bramhall's book against me, explaining the new way in these particulars, 1. To abhor Popery. 2. That we all come under a Foreign Juris∣diction, obeying the Pope as the Western Patriarch, and also as the Principium unitatis to the universal Church, Governing by the Canons. 3. That Dissenters from this be accounted Schisma∣ticks. 4. That we yield to what the Greeks have yielded, and beof their Religion. 5. That Gro∣tius was a Protestant for the Church of England.V. Dr. Parkers Preface to that book, and Dr. Pierce's de∣fence of Grotius.VI. Grotius his Volume and Notes on Cassander, specially his Discussio Apologetici Rivelia∣ni; in which he professeth, 1. That Rome is the Mist