A sermon preached at the funeral of Sir Willoughby Chamberlain, Kt. who died at his house at Chelsey, Dec. 6 and was interred at the parish church of St. James Garlick Hith, London, Dec. 12, 1697 / by John King, rector of Chelsey.


A SERMON Preached at the FUNERAL OF Sir Willoughby Chamberlain, Kt.
WHO Died at his House at Chelsey, Dec. 6. and was In∣terred at the Parish Church of St. James Garlick Hith, London, Dec. 12. 1697.
By JOHN KING, Rector of Chelsey, near London.
LONDON, Printed for Thomas Bennet, at the Half-Moon in St. Paul's Church-Yard, 1697.
TO THE Lady Chamberlain.Madam,ALL who know your Ladyship will easily excuse me for Pub∣lishing this Discourse, if at the same time they are acquainted it is done, in Obedience to your Com∣mand. But did they know the par∣ticular obligations I lie under, they would Tax that modesty, which should suppress it, for ungrateful. Now though I find no small aversion in me to the Publication; yet I find a greater to ingratitude. I have been a Witness of your great Affliction, and if I can do any thing that may be serviceable to you under your pre∣sent loss, and grief, if I can Admi∣nister

comfort to the Mourner, which is a Special act of Christain Charity, I shall be glad of the occasion, and not value the Censure may be justly due to this hasty and indigested Trea∣tise.
That an happiness suitable to your Virtue, and Piety (for I need wish no more) may attend you here, and an infinitely greater crown you here∣after, is the Prayer of,
Madam, Your Ladyship's Most Obliged and Humble Servant. John King.TO THE READER.A Preface may seem superfluous, were I not obliged to bespeak your favourable reception of the following Discourse, and your Charitable Judgment of the Subject thereof. As to the former, 'tis needless to alledge it was hastily composed, and not designed to be made publick, you will easily discover that from its incorrectness and imper∣fections. But whatever allowances are to be made for them, there are I assure thee none required to the sincerity of the relation. And its brevity is a virtue.
Perhaps some may disapprove of the Texts being taken out of the Apocrypha; but I hope none of our Church will say much on that point, since this excellent Book of Ecclesiasticus is appointed to be read in Churches, for Ex∣ample of Life and instruction of Manners, not as a Rule of Faith, which is as much as any Sermon, or mere humane composure can pretend to. And for the Explica∣tion of the words, I humbly submit it to better judgments.
The Gentleman here represented was born in the Fruit∣ful and Rich Island of Barbadoes, where he had a great Estate; and must be confessed that he had lived as freely, and as much at large (to use the softest terms of the dead) as any who are exposed to the temptations and snares of much Riches, and under the Conduct of little Prudence and Self-Government. So that the former part of his Life was irregular enough; and he can be esteemed but a late Convert.
His Reformation is to