A declaration and ordinance of the Lords and Commons assembled in Parliament;:  touching the Great Seale of England. And that the said Seale is to be put into the hands and custody of such commissioners, as are herein named by both Houses of Parliament. Ordered by the Commons in Parliament, that this declaration touching the Great Seale, be forthwith printed and published: H: Elsynge, Cler. Parl. D. Com.


A DECLARATION AND ORDINANCE OF The Lords and Commons assembled in PARLIAMENT; Touching The Great SEALE OF ENGLAND.
And that the said SEALE is to be put in∣to the hands and custody of such Commissioners, as are herein named by both Houses of Parliament.
ORdered by the Commons in Parliament, That this De∣claration Touching the Great Seale, be forthwith print∣ed and published:
H: Elsynge, Cler. Parl. D. Com.
Printed for Edward Husbands, November 11. 1643.
AN ORDINANCE OF THE LORDS and COMMONS Assembled in Parliament; Touching the Great Seal of England.WHereas the Great Seal of England, which by the Laws of this Realm ought to attend the Parliament, being the Supreme Court of Iustice and Iudicature within this Realm, for the di∣spatch of the great and weighty affairs of the Com∣monwealth, which is especially interessed and concer∣ned therein, was above a yeer last past, that is to say, the Two and twentieth day of May, Anno 1642. by the then Lord-Keeper thereof, Edward Lord Littleton, then a Member and Speaker of the House of Peers in Parliament, contrary to the great
trust in him reposed, and duty of his place, secretly and perfidiously conveyed away from the Parliament into the Kings Army, raised against the Parliament; the said Lord-Keeper departing therewith into the said Army, without the leave or privity of the said House; By means whereof, great mischiefs and in∣conveniencies have ensued to this Kingdom, and the Kingdom of Ireland.
And whereas the said Great Seal ought constantly to remain in the hands and custody of one or more Of∣ficer or Officers (sworn for that service) and to be used and imployed for the weal and safety of His Ma∣jesties People; which notwithstanding hath been di∣vers times sithence the conveying away thereof as aforesaid, put into the hands of other persons not sworn, and Popishly and dangerously affected, who have had the disposing and managing thereof at their own wills and pleasures, and hath been trayte∣rously and perniciously abused, to the Ruine and De∣struction of the Parliament and Kingdom, by grant∣ing and issuing out divers Illegall Commissions of Array, and other unlawfull Commissions for raising of Forces against the Parliament, by issu∣ing out of most foul and scandalous Papers, under the
Name and Title of Proclamations, against both Houses of Parliament, and divers Members thereof, and others adhering to them, and Proclayming them Traytors and Re∣bels; Commissions of Oyer and Terminer, to proceed against divers of them, as Traytors, and other Commis∣sions to seize and confiscate their Estates, for no othe