A discourse concerning Ananias and Saphira wherein is laid open thier sin & punishment. By William Houghton, minister of Ordsoll in Nottinghamshire.


A DISCOURSE CONCERNING Ananias and Saphira, Wherein is laid open Their SIN & PUNISHMENT.
BY William Houghton, Minister of Ordsoll in Nottinghamshire.
1 Cor. 10.6, 11.These things happened unto them for examples, and are written for our admonition.
Rom. 2.22.Thou that abhorrest Idolls, committest thou Sacriledge?
Many who have fled from Idolatry, and reformed the Worship of God from that pollution 〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉, that is, by bending the crooked stick too much the other way, have run too far into the contrary extream, and taken away (some of us) all difference in a manner between Sacred and Prophane, and in so doing made our selves lyable to that upbraid of the Apostle: Tu qui idola abominaris, Sacrilegium admittis?Mede Diatr. 74.
LONDON, Printed by J. H. for Nathanael Webb, at the Kings Head in St. Pauls Church-Yard, 1661.
To the Reader.WHen Adam and Eve had sinned in eating the forbidden fruit, Eve was first called forth and sentenced, then Adam: Here on the contrary, first Ananias, then Saphira. The reason here∣of, I conceive, was this, because there the woman was first in the transgression, but here the man: There the Husband was consenting to the Wife, here the Wife was con∣senting to the Husband. It is not a question this much materi∣al to be stood upon which of them sinned first, it is likely there was no long space of time between them: In such a nearness as is between head and body the infection ran suddenly from one to the other. This therefore should rather take up our thoughts and meditations, that as they were consenting toge∣ther in sin, so were they partakers in the punishment, this was the just judgement of God upon them; and this joyning toge∣ther in sin is the cause of most general judgments. As sheep, having infected one another, die together of the rot: so when people have generally corrupted one another, they fall and perish together by Sword, Famine, or Pestilence. Therefore the first counsel both David and Solomon give in the Psalms and Proverbs, is, not to walk in the way of the ungodly, and, If sinners entice thee consent thou not. Especially, as thou lovest thy soul, have a care to keep thy self from this sin of Sa∣criledge, and walk not in the way of Ananias. Many there are who count all gain godliness, therefore Sacriledge is not
thought to be a sin by such men, but being weighed by the bal∣lance of the Sanctuary, and the heavy judgments of God upon it, it will be found to be a great and grievous sin, highly pro∣voking the eyes of Gods glory. The sin of Adam and Eve was the sin of Sacriledge, and the first sin that was punisht in the Old Testament: This sin of Ananias and Saphira the sin also of Sacriledge, and the first that we read of that was pu∣nisht in the New Testament, after the descending of the Holy Ghost: Surely therefore (as Solomon saith) it is a sna