Hidden manna or, the mystery of saving grace. Wherein the peculiarity of Gods especiall grace to the elect is asserted and proved, and divers objections of Pelagians and Arminians about the power of the will of man to supernatural good, are fully answered and confuted. By that reverend, learned, and faithfull minister of Gods word, William Fenner B.D. late of Rochford in Essex. Perfected many years since by the author whilst he was preacher at VVillingsworth in Staffordshire. Imprimatur Edm. Calamy.


Hidden Manna: OR, The Mystery of Saving Grace.
Wherein The peculiarity of Gods especiall Grace to the Elect is asserted and proved, and divers Objections of Pelagians and Arminians about the power of the Will of man to supernaturall good, are fully answered and confuted.
By that Reverend, Learned, and faithfull Minister of Gods Word, William Fenner B. D. late of Rochford in Essex.
Perfected many years since by the Author whilst he was Preacher at VVillingsworth in Staffordshire.
Joh. 14. 22.Judas saith unto him (not Iscariot) Lord, how is it that thou wilt manifest thy selfe unto us, and not unto the world?Imprimatur
Edm. Calamy.Printed at London by R. I. for S. Bowtell, at the Bible in Popes-head Alley. 1652.
TO THE Worshipfull my very loving Friends, Mr. John Wollaston (now Sir John Wol∣laston Kt. and Alderman of the City of London, and Master Thomas Parkes Esquire. Grace and peace from our Lord Jesus Christ.THe will of man is more wilfull, then the understanding blinde; The Pro∣phet, speaking of the Learned Scribes and Doctors, saith, They have known the way of the Lord, but they have
 altogether broken the yoke, Jerem. 5. 5. more wil∣full, then blinde; yea, the very Pagans, When they knew God, they glorified him, not as God, Rom. 1. 21. Yea, They were haters of God, ver. 30. who know∣ing the Judgements ofGod, that they which com∣mit such things are wor∣thy of death, not only doe the same, but have plea∣sure in them, and doe them, ver. 32. The reason why I say a wicked man sinnes more out of wilfulnesse, then blindnesse is, three fold; the first is taken à causâ, from the cause, because his wilfulnesse is the cause of his blindnesse: For fooles hate know∣ledge, Prov. 1. 22. or at least they regard not to know it, Prov. 29. 7. Nei∣ther is this only true of those people that have preaching, who actually refuse instruction, and will not learne amend∣ment of life, of whom the Psalmist speaks; They know not, neither will they un∣derstand, Psal. 82. 5. But it is true also of those blinde soules, that live under blinde Guides, they doe potentially, and innato habitu, reject the Doctrin of newnesse of life, of whom Salomon speakes; Speake not in the eares of a foole, for he will despise the wisdome of thy words, Prov. 23. 9. The second is taken ab effectis, from the
 effects, because the effect shews his wilfulnesse, more then his blindnesse; He knowes that drunkennesse, and company-keeping is a sinne, yet he will live in it; he knowes that in∣terloquuto