A more exact and perfect relation of the great victory (by Gods providence) obtained by the Parliaments forces under command of Sir Tho. Fairfax in Naisby field, on Saturday 14. June 1645. Where His Majesties army was utterly routed, and all his infantry taken, with many of his horse, bag and baggage, ordnance, armes, and ammunition, and what losse was on both sides: with the number of officers and souldiers taken prisoner. Being a letter from a gentleman in Northampton, to his friend in London. Published by command.


A more exact and perfect RELATION Of the great VICTORY (By Gods providence) obtained by the Parliaments Forces under command of Sir Tho. Fairfax In Naisby Field, on Saturday 14. June 1645.
Where His Majesties Army was utterly routed, and all his Infantry taken, with many of his Horse, Bag and Baggage, Ordnance, Armes, and Am∣munition, and what losse was on both sides: With the number of Officers and Soul∣diers taken prisoners.
Being a Letter from a Gentleman in Northampton, to his friend in London.
Published by command.
Imprinted at London for John Wright at the Kings head in the old Bayley. 1645.
A more exact and perfect Relation of the great Victory obtained by the Parliaments Forces under the command of Sir Thomas Fairfax.SIR,I Shall very briefly tell you the pro∣gresse or march of our Army, under the command of that thrice noble Generall Sir Thomas Fairfax; for this last weeke, that may, as did his mo∣tions all tend to the great and glori∣ous Victory obtained this fourteenth of June. On Munday June 9. the Army moved from Onely and Sherington thorow Newport-Pagnell unto Stony-Stratford and the Villages adjacent, and on Wednesday night June 11. came to Wootton two miles from Northampton, on Thursday to Kislingbury with∣in five miles of Daventry the Kings head quarter, where the Army lay in the Field, and that night in∣countred with some of the Kings Scouts, with losse of two of our men, and taking two of theirs, which gave the Alarm to the Enemy. About seven at night the King being hunting in Faulsely Parke, and had no word of the so neere approach of our Army, but as soone as they perceived the Generall drew towards them as if he intended to fight, they drew all on Bur∣rowhill neere Daventry, and in all haste indeavoured to get away; the news being brought to them (as a Country-man told the Generall next day) that Iron∣sides was comming to joyne with the Parliaments Army. About five of the clocke on Fryday morning the Kings Army began their march out of Daventry, and about nine the Towne was quite rid of them, they having kept on horseback all night, and much running about amongst the Foot to get the Carriages ready. That Firday morning came Lieutenant-Ge∣nerall Cromwell to the Army as they were drawing out to march after the Kings Army, who took their way towards Leicester: The Horse at the appearing of the Lieutenant-Generall gave a mighty shout for joy of his comming to them: A party of our Horse were sent to Daventry to know