The misery and duty of an oppress'd and enslav'd people, represented in a sermon delivered at Salisbury, July 14, 1774. : On a day set apart for fasting and prayer, on account of approaching public calamities. : Published by request. / By Samuel Webster, A.M. Pastor of a church in Salisbury.


Mr. WEBSTER'S FAST-SERMON. JULY 14, 1774.
THE MISERY AND DUTY OF AN OPPRESS'D AND ENSLAV'D PEOPLE, REPRESENTED IN A SERMON Delivered at SALISBURY, July 14, 1774. On a Day set apart for FASTING and PRAYER, On Account of approaching public Calamities. PUBLISHED BY REQUEST. By SAMUEL WEBSTER, A. M. Pastor of a Church in SALISBURY.
BOSTON: Printed by Edes and Gill, in Queen-Street. M,DCC,LXXIV.
A FAST-SERMON.NEHEMIAH IX. 36,—38.Behold we are Servants this Day! And for the Land that thou gavest unto our Fathers, to eat the Fruit thereof, and the Good thereof, behold we are Servants in it!
And it yieldeth much Increase unto the Kings which thou hast set over us, because of our Sins: Also they have Dominion over our Bodies and over our Cattle, at their Pleasure: And we are in great Distress!
And because of all this, we make a sure Covenant, and write it, and our Princes, Levites and Priests seal unto it.
NEHEMIAH, the author of this book, was a great officer in the court of Artaxerxes, king, or ra|ther, as we now speak, Emperor of Persia (being his Cup-bearer). Which honorable and profitable 〈◊〉, it seems, tempted him to tarry behind, when

his brethren return'd from captivity, about thir|teen years before, under Zerubbabel and Ezra, in order to rebuild the temple and city; which had now, according to the prophecy, lain waste se|venty years.
But when he found, by an account given him by some of his brethren who had return'd from Judea, the yet desolate condition of his ancient city and country, being a good man and a true patriot, he was greatly affected, and pass'd several days in fasting and tears and doleful retirement: And then address'd himself to God in the most humble prayer and supplication for them.
The substance of which is thus given by a learned paraphrast.
"Lord of heaven and governor of all things! who art infinitely just and tremendous in thy judgments upon the disobedient; and faithful to all thy promises to thy dutiful servants: Lend a gracious car to the cries of a distress'd Israelite, humbly confessing his own and his father's ini|quities; and lamenting the calamities of his na|tion, thine own chosen people.
Let it suffice that they have thus long felt and smarted under the heavy strokes of thy righ|teous displeasure, and, with all contrition beg again to be restor'd to thy wonted favor and protection.
Remember how thy earliest sure threats of punishing their wickedness with the loss of their dear country, were still accompanied with a gra|cious

promise, that their repentance should at last retrieve it again; and cause them still to be own'd by thee for thine inheritance; for whose sakes thou hast done such marvellous things in the sight of al