Five new plays ... as they were acted by His Majesty's servants at the Theatre-Royal / written by the Honourable Sir Robert Howard.


 [illustration] The Honble. Sr. Robert Howard.
FIVE NEW PLAYS, VIZ. Comedies.The Surprisal, The Committee,ANDTragedies.The Indian-Queen,The Vestal-Virgin,The Duke of Lerma, As they were Acted by His MAJESTY's Servants at the Theatre-Royal. Written by the Honourable Sir ROBERT HOWARD.
The Second Edition Corrected.
LONDON, Printed for Henry Herringman, and are to be Sold by R. Bentley, J. Tonson, F. Saunders, and T. Bennet. MDCXCII.
TO THE READER.THere is none more sensible than I am, how great a Charity the most Ingenious may need, that expose their private Wit to a publick Judgment; since the same Phancy from whence the Thoughts proceed, must probably be kind to its own Issue: This renders Men no perfecter Judges of their own Writings, than Fathers are of their own Children; who find out that Wit in them which another di∣scerns not, and see not those Errors which are evident to the un∣concern'd. Nor is this self-kindness more fatal to Men in their Writings, than in their Actions; every Man being a greater Flatterer to himself than he knows how to be to another; other∣wise it were impossible that things of such distant Natures shou'd find their own Authors so equally kind in their affections to them, and Men so different in Parts and Virtues, should rest equally contented in their own Opinions.
This Apprehension, added to that greater which I have of my own Weakness, may I hope incline the Reader to believe me, when I assure him that these Follies were made publick as much against my Inclination as Judgment: But being pursu'd with so many Sollicitations of Mr Herringman's, and having receiv'd Civilities from him, if it were possible, exceeding his Importunities; I at last yielded to prefer that which he believ'd his Interest, before that which I apprehended my own Disadvantage: Considering withal, That he might pretend it would be a real Loss to him, and could be but an imaginary Prejudice to me; since things of this nature, though never so excellent or never so mean, have seldom prov'd the Foundation of Mens new-built Fortunes, or the Ruine of their old; it being the Fate of Poetry, though of no other good Parts, to be wholly separated from Interest; and there are few that know me but will easily believe I am not much concern'd in an unprofitable Reputation. This clear account I have given the

Reader of this seeming Contradiction, to offer that to the World which I dislike my self; and in all things I have no greater an ambition than to be believ'd a Person that would rather be unkind to my self, than ungrateful to others.
I have made this excuse for my self, I offer none for my Wri∣tings, but freely leave the Reader to condemn that which has re∣ceiv'd my Sentence already. Yet I shall presume to say something in the justification of our Nation's Plays, though not of my own; since in my Judgment, without being part