Ludus Scacchiæ a satyr against unjust wars : representing the intemperate lust of a wanton and never satisfied ambition.


LVDVS SCACCHIAE: A SATYR AGAINST UNJUST WARS: Representing the intemperate lust of a Wanton and never satisfied Ambition.
Dum Vacat.—
LONDON: Printed for Robert Clavel at the Peacock in St. Pauls Church-yard, 1676.
To the Reader.PApers of this nature, having no coherence with each other, but passing abroad, loose, and name∣less, are oftentimes (as Children straying from their Parents) seiz'd on, and possess'd by Wanderers; who do not yet think them stoln sure enough, till by distorting their Limbs, and newfashioning, and moulding them into unknown shapes (as the same Tribe deal with stoln Garments) they have alter'd the Property of the child; thus doubly lost, to its Parents first, and to it self after. Such having been the luck of some of these Papers, the Author thought

himself concern'd, by suffering them to appear as when he first parted with them, to repair the Injury done to them, Himself, and the Rea∣der.
Ludus Scacchiae.BEtwixt two Potent Shecks an endless Fewd
Begun, decided, and agen renew'd,
Where Equal Powers Equal Powers invade,
By turnes who Triumph'd, and were Triumphs made;
Where Vertu• never did on Fortune wait,
But drew at home the Lot of its own Fate;
Death, both alike, or Victory pursue,
'Cause other men had nothing else to do,
We sing. But first, according to the Law•
Of story, though some thus ••ightly speak oth' cause,
We must not so pass't o'r, le•t it be thought
We knew as little on't, as they •h•t fought.
The common Souldier, by Pro•idence
Call'd forth to Fight for Conscience, or for pence,
(Both which he wanted▪ and return'd hom, fraught
With full as much of either, as he brought)
Made that his cause, oblig'd to kill and slay
By 〈◊〉 Religio•s, or more sacr•d pay.
Some talk'd of Fame▪ and Honour; gain'd by spoil,
Rapine, destruction, and the Virtuous Toyle
Of shedding Blood; in which crimes alone
They plac'd All Honour, and without e'm, none.
But these were private ends, which might be gain'd
Whether their party Right, or Wrong maintain'd;
But the Grand cause it self, is still a Mistery,
Mention'd by no Authentique Rime, or History;
Only one Nameless Author, (who shall still
Be so for us since 'twas his own good-will)
Says, that they quarrell'd not 'bout Wrong, or Right;
But cause the one was Black and t'other white:
So that although in shape, both sides were one,
In substance, Power, Value, Motion;
And for the same, did as the friend appear,
The fewds, through deadly Colours, mortal were▪
So for like cause to death, the Veneti
Pursu'd and were pursu'd by th' Prassini;
Though both were Greeks, though one were as much Christi∣an
As t'other; both subjects of the same Iustinian:
Had took no Covenant, fram'd no Cross-Religion
By serpents Innocence, and wit oth' Pidgeon;
Fought for no good nor hurt, Honour nor Riches;
But 'cause the O•e wore Blew, t'Other Green Breeches:
Yet, which with wonder must be to