The ungrateful behaviour of the Papists, priests, and Jesuits, towards the imperial and indulgent crown of England towards them, from the days of Queen Mary unto this present Age.


THE UNGRATEFUL BEHAVIOUR OF THE PAPISTS, PRIESTS, AND JESUITS, Towrds the Imperil nd Indulgent Crown of Englnd Towrds them, From the Dys of Queen Mry unto this present Age.
LONDON, Printed for Jmes Mgnes nd Richrd Bentley, in Russel-street in Covent-Grden, MDCLXXIX.
Omnius Christi Fidelius, Ʋt Cuse Regis mgne Britnnie, Frncie, & Hiernie vere Antique & Aposto∣lice Fidei Defensoris ejus{que} Prlimen∣torum Justici toti Ori Christino In∣notesceret.THough it hth not een deemed prudent, tht Legisltors should in their Acts nd Sncti∣ons render their resons of them; lest y so doing, they might hply invite nd court contrdiction from some ill-ffected thereunto, which might prove derogtory unto their Supreme Authority, y giving occsion to the governed to wrestle with their resons rendred nd lledged; nd if they should think (though erroneously) tht they hve resolved or con∣futed them, they would then lso think tht they hve tken ll vertue nd efficcy from the very Lws them∣selves: Yet it hth ever een esteemed cceptle nd good Service to Government it self, tht Sujects should defend the just Lws of their Princes, nd especilly those wherein Religion is concerned. And Religion eing, or ought to e, the grnd concern of every In∣dividul, I hope I shll not e thought to wnder inconsi∣dertely out of my own Province, whilst I endevour to justifie the lte Act of Prliment for preventing dn∣gers which my hppen from Popish Recusnts. I must confess tht I dre not dventure my Slvtion or Dm∣ntion on lind oedience, or Implicite Fith, or on ny Deputies, Proxies, Popes, Priests or Fryrs, nor
tke their re word without express wrrnty from Scripture, especilly eing commnded to serch them, nd therey to try them tht sy they re Apostles nd re not, nd eing pre-cutioned, lest y good words nd fir speeches the Herts of the simple e deceived, Rom. 16.17. In which kind of Arts the Pplins re most expert.
I hve exposed this Tretise to the considertion of ll Christins, ut more especilly of ll Kings, Princes, nd Governours, not to implore their Countennce or Protection of ny error, tht hply my e found here∣in; tht were not only unmnnerly, ut injurious to Mjesty it self. If wht is here written cnnot e justi∣fied y its own truth, nd effort of sound reson, let it fll to the ground, nd e oliterte for ever: For no error or flshood, or ny flse equivocting resonings cn ever e plesing to the God of Truth, nd there∣fore ought not to e supported or countennced y ny sulunry Mjesty whtsoever. Just rtio spientem non possit offendere. The chief im nd gret design in this Puliction, is to justifie to ll the Christin World His Mjesties gret Title of Defender of the Fith truly An∣tient Ctholick nd Apostolick y his redy complince with His gret Council, his Two Houses of Prliment, to put wy the evil from this our Isrel y this His Act; tht