To the honourable knights, citizens, and burgesses, of the Commons-House of Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the master, warden and assistants of the Company of Clothworkers of the City of London, in the behalfe of themselves, and of the artizan clothworkers of the same company.


TO THE HONOVRABLE KNIGHTS, CITIZENS, And BVRGESSES, OF THE COMMONS-HOUSE OF PARLIAMENT Assembled.The humble Petition of the Master, Wardens, and Assistants of the Company of Clothworkers of the City of London, in the behalfe of them∣selves, and of the Artizan Clothworkers of the same Company.SHEVVETH,THat whereas many thousand Families of Clothworkers in the City of London and elsewhere, have for hun∣dred of yeares heretofore maintained themselves, and lived comfortably, by the rowing and shearing of broad and narrow Cloathes. Whiles they enjoyed the benefit of severall Statutes provided for their better employment, and reliefe; as namely, the Statute 33. Hen. 8. Chap. 19. which prohibits any person or persons to transport any white woollen Cloath, above the value of 4. l. or any coloured Cloath, above the value of 3. l. undressed under paine of forfeiting the same; and of 8. Eliz. Chap. 6. which enacts, that for every nine Cloathes unwrought to bee shipped beyond the Seas, contrary to any Statute in force, by vertue of any li∣cence to bee granted, the party who should carry over the same, shall transport one woollen Cloath of like sort, length, breath, and goodnesse, ready wrought and dressed, under paine of forfeiting for every such nine Cloathes, transported contrary to this Statute the summe of tenne pounds, the moyety of all which forfeitures, were to accrew to the Company of Cloath workers for the reliefe of their Poore; yet of late yeares, divers licenses and dispensations to transport Cloaths unwrought have beene granted to sundry persons for their private lucre, contrary to these Acts, whereby your Petitioners have beene deprived of their naturall birth right, the dressing of English Cloath, and Aliens in forraigne parts employed, in, and enriched by their trade; to the great prejudice of your Petitioners, and the Common-wealth; And whereas your Petitioners for their reliefe herein, have formerly commenced suites against sundry Merchants for the forfeitures, due unto them by the said Acts, their suites have beene stopped by speciall Orders from the Councel-Table: And one lately commenced against one Master Thomas Smith, was by the entreaty of a Committee of this Honourable Assembly surceased, upon promise, they should bee relieved upon their Petition. And to adde to their affliction, many Gig-Mills for rowing of Cloath, have beene erected and used of late yeares about Stroud∣water, by Thomas Webbe and divers others, contrary to the Statute of 5. Edw. 6. Chap. 22. Their Wardens in their searches with∣stood by Cloathworkers, who are free of other Companies, as Master Henry Leaves and others, against the expresse provision of 39. Eliz. Chap. 13. Their