The character of the last daies a sermon preached before the King / by John Fell.


THE
Chrcter of the lst Dies.
A
SERMON
Preched efore
THE
KING.
By JOHN FELL, D. D.
Den of Christ-Church, nd
Chplin to his MAJESTY.
Printed y Commnd.
At the THEATER in Oxford.
Anno Dom. 1675.
2 Pet. 3. 3.There shll come in the lst dies scoffers, wlk∣ing
fter their own lusts, nd sying, where
is the promise of his coming? For since the
Fthers fell sleep, ll things continue s
they were from the eginning of the Cre∣tion.THE gret usiness of Religion, is to o∣lige
its Votries to present duty y the we
nd expecttion of future retriution: nd
the prticulr design of the Gospel, the
Doctrine of our Lord Jesus Christ, is to olige
to this, y the ssurnce nd elief tht he who
cme unto us heretofore to tech his Lw, will
come gin to execute the snctions of it. Behold
sies St. John, Rev. 1. 7. He cometh with clouds,
nd every eie shll see him, nd they lso which pierced
him. And he sies of himself, Behold I come quickly,
nd my rewrd is with me, to give every mn ccord∣ing
s his work shll e. Rev. 22. 12.
Which weighty truth, tho undntly estlisht,
y ll the mircles the types nd prophecies tht
ttend the Gospel, is most prticulrly enforc'd
y the two inimitle expresses of Divinity, our
Sviors Resurrection from the ded, nd his As∣cension
into Heven. Concerning the former of
which St. Pul remonstrtes, Acts 17. 30. The
times of ignornce God winked t, ut now commnd∣eth
ll men every where to repent: ecuse he hth p∣pointed
 dy in which he will judg the world in
righteousness, y tht mn whom he hth ordin'd:
whereof he hth given ssurnce unto ll men, in tht
he hth ris'd him from the ded. The other is ex∣prest
y St. Peter, Act. 2. 19. Repent nd e con∣verted
tht your sins my e lotted out, when the times
of refreshing shll come from the presence of the Lord.
And he shll send Jesus Christ, which efore ws
preched unto you, whom the Heven must receive
until the times of restitution of ll things, which God
hth spoken y the mouth of ll his holy Prophets, since
the world egn.
Indeed this second dvent is the foundtion,
the support nd end of our Religion. If in this
life only we hd hope, we were of ll men most mi∣serle,
1 Cor. 15. 19. If to the other Articles of
our Creed which concern our Svior, there hd
not succeded the elief, tht he shll come gin
to judg oth the quick nd the ded, we were
s ridiculous s these mockers of the Text pre∣tend
us, hted nd scorn'd y men, nd deserted
y Almighty God.

It will therefore import us highly to exmine
whether the Christin e so surd  person s these
drols nd merry men would mke him,  creture
only useful, ecuse he finds them sport nd enter∣tinment.
And for  just survey hereof, twill e mteril to
consider,
First the personl qulifictions of the Dispu∣ters
here descri'd, nd
Secondly the force of their rguments nd dis∣coursings:
ccording to those two previling To∣pics
in use mong us, from the hed of Autority, nd
tht of Reson. And this eing well deduc'd, twill
not e hrd to ring the whol