The matchless rogue, or, A brief account of the life of Don Thomazo, the unfortunate son together with the just commendations of the gentlemans ingenious answer to Malice defeated, intituled, Some reflections on Madam Cellier's case : with due respect to the honourable title of captain, which himself says he is worthy of.


THE
MATCHLESS ROGUE;
OR,
A Brief Account of the LIFE of
DON THOMAZO
The Unfortunate SON.
TOGETHER WITH
The Just Commendations of the Gentlemans Ingenious ANSWER to
MALICE Defeated;
INTITULED,
SOME REFLECTIONS
ON
Madam Cellier's CASE.
With Due Respect to the Honourable Title of
CAPTAIN,
Which Himself says He is Worthy of.
Prov. 26. As Snow in Summer, and Rain in Harvest, so Honour is not seemly for a fool.
A Whip for a Horse, a Bridle for an Ass, and a Rod for a Fools Back.
Answer a Fool according to his folly, least he become wise in his own conceit.
LONDON,
Printed for ELIZABETH CELLIER, and are to be sold at her House
in ARUNDEL Street, near St. CLEMENT'S Church, 1680.
〈1 page duplicate〉The MATCHLESS ROGUE, &c.HAving perus'd that most Elaborate-Piece which marches abroad
under tie Title of an Answer to Malice Defeated, or some Reflections
on Madam Cellier's Case; I could not but wonder how so much wit
and ingenuity, accompanied with so clear a Demonstration of the Falla∣cies
of my Book, could be crouded into so narrow a compass as one
side of half a sheet of small Paper, like Homer's Illiads in a Nut-shell;
And how one single Person could be so strangely inspir'd as to be
the Author of it: For it seem'd to me as if all the wits of the Town
had clubb'd their ingenuity towards the writing thereof; and several
Reflections and Imaginations crept into my Head about it.
Sometimes I was apt to think its Author's Name must needs be
Legion; or at least that some Gentleman of at least 3 Names, must be
the Pen-man; For Marcus Tullius Cicero was a great Orator.
Then I remembred how the Famous Doctor wholly refuted the Car∣dinal,
and rescinded all his Arguments in these three words, Bellarmine
thon Ly•st; and began to think that the opinion of Pythagoras touching
the Transmigration of Souls, was true; and that the Spirit of that Great
Refuter had only shifted places, and was transmigrated into You.
But considering the good Manners and Civility with which you treat
the whole Female sex at once, by joyning them with those you call
the Popes Damnable and Malitious Imps, and saying, they are as great a tor∣ment
to England, as Hell it self is to them; and remembring withall,
the Names and Titles which you have appropriated to your self, and
the Marks wherewith you are adorn'd or rather stigmatiz'd, and the Civil
Education which you have had in the several Universities wherein you
have study'd under severe Tutors; then I concluded none but your self,
or some Person of your Civil Education, could let flie this Answer
into the World: And the rather, because you say Capt. Thomas Dan∣gerfield
is worthy of that title, wherein I fully concur with yo