A third letter from a gentleman in the country, to his friends in London, upon the subject of the penal laws and tests


A Third
LETTER
From a Gentleman in the
COUNTRY,
To his Friends in
LONDON,
Upon the Subject of the
Penal Laws and Tests.
Licensed,
May the 16th
1687.
LONDON,
Printed, for J. H. and T. S. and to be had of most Booksellers
in London and Westminster, 1687.
My Honoured Friends,SInce my last Letter was so happy as to please more of
the Party than my first Offended, and that even those
are somewhat softened by it, I prevail'd with my self,
once more, to give you my thoughts upon the same Sub∣ject:
And though I think the Objections you have sent me,
are come too far for an Answer, yet I will give you mine, with
all the plainness, brevity and temper I can; for they that
seek the publick good, are not to be nice in their endeavours
for it; and such who go upon Principles, have the advantage of
being secured by their Sincerity, even where their mistakes
cannot be defended. But as I think I am not in the wrong, so
I sincerely profess, if I knew I were, no temporal considera∣tion
should engage me against my Opinion; for though I am
for the Liberty of persuing ones own Judgment, I abhor the
Latitude of Dissembling it. But to the point before us.
You tell me, that the generality of the Soberest and Wisest
of those, that would be esteemed Members of the Church of
England, of your Acquaintance, do declare, They have no
Aversion for Liberty of Conscience, and that they always liked
an Indulgence to Dissenters, but they are angry at the present
manner of it, and with the Addresses of Thanks the Dissenters
have made to the King for It.
To say nothing then of who they were that made the Penal
Laws, or by whom they were Executed, or upon what Mo∣tives;
and less, what Prejudices thereby have followed to the
Persons and Estates of Thousands of the Kings Subjects (be∣cause
that History might look harsh, and I resolve to be as

healing as I can) Let me ask, why these Gentlemen should be
offended at the way of the Ease the King has graciously given?
'Tis certain, that some of them reproach'd the severe Conduct
he has chang'd, and thought it ill in the Government to expose
so many useful Men in their Persons and Estates to a pack of
lewd Informers, that yet now quarrel the stop he has given to
those severities. They will, I hope, pardon me if I say; Christ's
Answer to the Pharisees about the breach of the Sabboth came
in my mind upon reading their Objection, What man among you
that should have a Sheep fall into a Pit on the Sabboth day, will,
not lay hold on it and lift it out? He excused David and the Priests
in a Case of the like nature, and thought a good deed was to
be done at any time, when he healed the poor man. This
was he that preferred Mercy before Sacrifice, and exalted the
good Nature of the Samaritan above the strict Priest and Le∣vite,
that with all their Reverence to the Law, left the Rifled
and Wounded unregarded. But to turn the stile of