Truth maintained, or, Positions delivered in a sermon at the Savoy since traduced for dangerous, now asserted for sovnd and safe / by Thomas Fvller.



Truth Mintined, or POSITIONS DELIVERED in  Sermon t the SAVOY: Sine Trdued For DANGEROVS: Now Asserted For SOVND nd SAFE.
By THOMAS FVLLER, B. D. lte of Sidney Colledge in Cmridge.
The Prtiulrs re These. I Tht the Dotrine of the Impossiility of  Churhes perfetion, in this world, eing wel understood, egets not lzinesse ut the more indust•• in wise reformers.II Tht the Churh of Englnd nnot justly e txed with superstitious innovtions.III How frre privte Christins, Ministers, nd suordinte Mgistrtes, re to onurre to the dvning of  Pulique Reformtion.IIII Wht prts therein re only to e ted y the Supreme power.V Of the progresse, nd prise of pssive oediene.VI Tht no extrordinry Exittions, Inittions, or Inspirtions re estowed from God, on men in these dyes.VII Tht it is utterly unlwfull to give ny just offene to the ppist, or to ny men wht∣soever.VIII Wht dvntge the Fthers hd of us, in lerning nd religion, nd wht we hve of them.IX Tht no new light, or new essentill truths, re, or n e reveled in this ge.X Tht the dotrine of the Churhes imperfetion, my sfely e prehed, nd nnot honestly e oneled.
With severll Letters, to lere the osion of this Book.
I will ere the wrth of the Lord, euse I hve sinned ginst him, untill he pled my use, nd exeute iudgement for me; then will he ring me forth to the light, nd I shll see his righteousnesse, 
Mih. 7. 9.Printed t London, Anno Dom. 1643.
TO THE Most Sred, nd Reverend ASSEMBLY For the REFORMATION of the CHURCH, now onvened y the PARLIAMENT.Most Sred nd Reverend Divines,I Hve ut the thoughts of n Afternoone to spred efore you; for I Exmined the sme Pe tht J red, tht if it were possile  Truth might overtke n Errour, ere it goe too frre. It is not  little Enourgement tht I my sit like the Prophetesse under the Plme tree, under suh  Shde s your selves, nd wht wekenesse soever my ppere in these my Assertions: This yring them under your Ptronge, will hele them. For so theyrought forth the sik into the streets, tht t lest the shdow of Peter might touh some of them. Thus hve I suddenly set up my Cndle for others to Light their Torh t; nd, I hope, you will prdon me, if my Zele to the Truth mde me see Ano∣thers fults sooner then mine Owne,
Your Servnt in Christ Iesus Iohn Sltmrsh.TO the Two most Fmous VNIVERSITIES OF ENGLANDI Dre not give you suh high Epithites, s Mster Sltmrsh estoweth upon the Assemly, to ll you the MOST SACRED. Be ontented to e Stiled the Two most Fmous Vniversities;  Title, whih it is no Flttery to give you, ut Injury to deny you.
I hve the Studies of some whole dyes to spred efore you. I m not shmed to onfesse so muh, ut should e shmed to present your lerned Considertions with lesse. And will r∣ther runne the hzrd of other mens Censure, to hve studied so long to no purpose, then to

e guilty to my selfe of so muh disrespet to You, s to offer to your Ptronge w