A treatise, vvritten by M. doctor Carier, vvherein hee layeth downe sundry learned and pithy considerations by which he was moued, to forsake the Protestant congregation, and to betake himselfe to the Catholke Apostolike Roman Church. Agreeing verbatim with the written copye, addressed by the sayd doctor to the King his most excellent Maiestie.



A Treatise, VVritten by M. Doctor CARIER, vvherein hee layeth downe sundry learned and pithy considerations, by which he was moued, to forsake the Protestant Congregation, and to betake himselfe to the Catholike Apostolike Roman Church.
Agreeing verbatim with the written Copye, addressed by the sayd Doctor to the King his most Excellent MA∣IESTIE.
PSALM. 44.Mine heart will vtter forth a good matter: I will entreat in my workes of the King.
1614.
The Preface to the Reader.HAuing exactly pervsed, (good Reader) this Trea∣tise, here presented to thy view, and finding it both in stuffe and stile to be learnedly, and eloquently contri∣ued; I tooke my selfe, in some sort, obliged in Christian duety, to divulge it in Print to the World: vnwittingly, I confesse to the Author: Howbeit encroching vpon his charitable consent; who, I am well assured, is most for∣ward to defray his Talent, in ought, wherein the Catho∣like Roman Religion may be aduanced. Of this full and firme resolution he hath made effectiue proofe, not only in wordes, but also in workes.
The Author, as it is notoriously knowne, hath gained Name and Fame among the Protestants: Hauing beene a Teacher in their Colleges, a Preacher in their Pulpits, a Doctor in their Schooles, a Canon in their Churches, Chapplain to the King his most excellent Maiestie, flow∣ing in wealth, supported with the credit of the Court, most likely, in short time, to aspire to higher Ecclesiasticall pre∣ferments, had he persisted in the course of his former Profession: yet notwithstanding all these worldly allure∣ments, which are, in good sooth, wonderous intycing baites, to hooke and to hold an vnstayed Soule: M. Do∣ctor Carier, hauing from his greener yeares, wallowed himselfe in the choicest Writings of the most learned Pro∣testants, and confronting in his mature Age, their waue∣ring opinions with the vniforme and setled consent of the auncient Fathers, found the New so opposite to theOld, that at length receiuing gracious light from the Fa∣therof lights, did teare at a trice all these forementioned earthly snares, resoluing not to wander any longer like a lost sheep, but to come to the fold of the Catholike RomanChurch, and conscquently choosing, like a zealous Moy∣ses, to be afflicted with the people of God, then to hauethe pleasure of temporall sinne: These and the like preg∣nant points are sufficiently debated in this Treatise; which I wish thee gentle Reader, to pervse with heedfull attention, whereby the Authour his paines may turne to thy profit, if happily thou be altenated from the Catho∣like Roman Religion: Alwayes presenting thy prayers to our Lord, sweet Iesus,