An appeale to thy conscience as thou wilt answere it at the great and dreadfull day of Christ Iesus.


AN APPEALE TO THY Conscience: As thou wilt answere it at the great and dreadfull Day OF Christ Iesus.
BEhold, all yee that kindle a fire, that compasse your selves about with sparkes: walke in the light of •our fire, and in the sparkes that you have kindled. This •hall ye have of mine hand, ye shall lie downe in sorrow.
•say 50. 11.Printed in the Nineteenth Yeare of our Gracious Lord King Charles whom, God grant long to raigne.
An Appeale to thy Conscience.READER, whosoever thou art, I charge thee before God,and the Lord Iesus Christ, who sha•l judge the quick and the dead at that his appearing, and in his Kingdome, suffer whol∣some doctrine, and say aside the itching eares of these times, that after their own lasts get them an heape of teachers. Cen∣sure not before thou hast read it, and be as free from faction, as the Author of this Treatise is from Pop•ry, Socinianisme, Arminianisme, or any by relation whatsoever, which might draw him into errour. Spit our now the venom of envy and sedition, if thou art impoysoned therewith, it may be God may so worke by his holy spirit in thy heart, that thou mayest acknowledge the truth, and never suck in that venome again, & by repentancemayest come to amendment out of the snare of the Devil, of whom thou art taken prisoner (till then) to doe his will.
But thou, O happy Christian, who knowest these things, and doest them, be assured, all the blessings are thine which God promiseth from Lev. 26. verse. the third unto v. the 14. and take this exhortation from St. Iude, that thou earnestly contend for the faith which was once delivered unto thee, & be sted∣fast, not carried about with every winde of doctrine, as multitudes of corrupt men are in our daies, who are raging waves of the Sea, foaming out their owne shame, murmurers, complainers, walking after their owne lusts, having me•• persons in admiration because of advantage, mockers, separating, sensuall, having not the spirit, though they boast of nothing more: Likewise also these filthy dreamers defile the flesh, despise dominion, and speake evil of digni∣ties, and by wresting the word of God, do seek to maintaine their rebelli∣o•, schismes, factions, and their cursed speakings, daily vented abroad in their pamphlets, to the great dishonour of God, the scandall of His Church, and the infamy of our State.
And since the lawfulnesse of any action is the surest ground for hope of Gods blessing thereon: which (as the pretence runneth) is To defend 〈◊〉 Protestant Religion, and root out Popery and Idolatry; to obtain the •ust liberty of the subiect; and •o free them from sla•ery and oppression; We 〈◊〉•herefore with all sincerity and plainenesse, not handling the word of God deceitfully, but by m•nifestation of the tru•h, commending our selves to ev•ry mans c•n∣sciencein the sight of God,•y no other foundation but what the Scriptures have confirmed, which is,
Tha