The triall of vvitch-craft shewing the true and right methode of the discouery: with a confutation of erroneous wayes. By Iohn Cotta, Doctor in Physicke.


THE
TRIALL OF
With-rft,
SHEWING
THE TRVE AND
RIGHT METHODE
of the Disouery:
WITH
A Confuttion of erroneous wyes.
By IOHN COTTA, Dotor in Physike.
LONDON,
Printe y GEORGE PVRSLOWE for SAMVEL
RAND, n re to e sole t his shop neere
Holurne-rige. 1616.
TO THE RIGHT HONORA∣le,
Sir Ewr Coke Knight, Lor Chiefe Iustie of
Engln, n one of his Miesties most honourle priuie
Counell, n to the rest of the honourle n
worthie IVDGES.RIght honourle Lors, where oring vnto the
iretion of goo lwes, grious Souerignes no∣ly
rule, n loyll Suiets freely oey, there the
Common-wele, whih is the ommon goo of
oth, proueth the most royll, hppy n stle
Monrhy. If euer ny Kingome hth een fortunte, to giue 
true mirror n exmple of this hppinesse, this fmous Iln hth
een therein inomprle, wherein so mny puissnt Monrhs,
suessiuely swying this Emperill Dieme, oring vnto the
nient Lwes n Customes of this Ntion, hue so mny hun∣reths
of yeres gouerne this mighty people in pee n ho∣nour
t home, n vitoriously le them in triumphnt wrre ∣ro,
s y the glorious trumpe of forreine n omestike fme
n Historie is not osure. The splenor of this truth, the iniuri∣ous
spersion of insuffiienie in our English lws, nnot without
shme or lushing guilt ehol. Notwithstning, sine in some
few things to e wnting, ws neuer s yet wnting in the most
exquisite lwes, poliy n stte tht euer hth een, n sine the
Lwe of Go it selfe (though perfet in it selfe) through humne
imperfetion in the true perfetion ws neuer yet seene, giue mee

leue through ll lwes n Countries in one prtiulr to won∣er
t their generll efet. Wht Lwe or Ntion in the ete∣tion
of Withes, n With-rft, hth s yet euer ppere
ompetent, or from iust exeption exempt? How vnertine re
mong ll people iffering iugements? Some iuge no Wit∣hes
t ll, others more then too mny, others too few y mny,
in so opposite extremes, so extremely opposite: I oe not pre∣sume
to presrie how  lwe my eome more solute or per∣fet,
I onely lour n enquire to lerne. Among mny gene∣rll
iretions y ifferent Authors, iuersly pulishe, oner∣ning
the perfeting of prtiulr lwes, (s frre s perfetion is
possile vnto humne frilety) Demosthenes in his seon Ortion
ginst Aristogiton, in my thought oth seeme to equll (if not ex∣eee)
the most exquisite. Three things syth he (s my ee
plinely out of the forenme ple ollete) oe onurre vn∣to
the vpright onstitution of euery omplete lwe, wherey it
my e hel sre n inuiolte. The first is, tht it e 〈 in non-Ltin lphet 〉, tht
is, tht it ee the orinne n gift of Go.
Seonly, tht it ee 〈 in non-Ltin lphet 〉, tht is, the sge n
iuiious eree n ounsell of the most wise n pruent. The
thir is, tht it ee 〈 in non-Ltin lphet 〉, tht is, the vniuersll on∣sent
of the whole stte, City or ountrey. Certinely, the true
use of the forementione generll lmenesse, n onfusion of
Lwes in the propose se of With-rft onsisteth herein. Fir