To the Kings Most Excellent Majesty the humble peticion of William Courten, esquire, grandchild and heyre of Sr. William Courten, deceased and George Carew, esquire, administrator of the goods and chattells of Sr. William Courten on the behalf of themselves and several others, your Majesties good subjects of England.


〈1+ pages missing〉
That in prosecution of Justice and reparation, your Majestie was gratiously pleased particularly to owne the said cause, in a more especiall manner in the Treaty Anno 1662. then all other damages of that nature, to your sub∣jects, in regard of the many services and sufferings, of Sr. William Courten, and others Intrested, that had lent one Hundred and Twenty five Thousand Ponnd Sterling to his late Majestie, at usuall Interest, towards the ordinary charge of the Crowne before the yeare 1640, which re∣mains yet unsatisfied, as by the Tallies and Assignements in the Exchequer appeares.
That during the late Warr Anno 1672. your Majestie most graciously appeared againe, concerning the damages of the said Ships, holding your self obliged, in Justice, and honour, to get satisfaction, from the principall Offenders for the same. As by the orders of the Councell Table, and reports, of the Committe of Lords, intimating the merrits of the said cause to your Majestie accordingly.
That notwithstanding all the orders, procedings, and speciall grants, under the great Seale of England, concer∣ning the said Shipps, Goods, and Fraights, the Hollanders doe still pretend, they are not obliged to give any satis∣faction for the same, being made a debt incumbant upon the Crowne, by the last Treaty at London, whereby eight Hundred Thousand Pattacones are to be paid unto your
Majestie by the States Generall, at foure equall payments, for which the Crowne of Spaine stands obliged, that they shall be paid accordingly.
Your Peticioners doe therefore most humbly pray, that your Majestie would be most graciously pleased, to assigne some part, and proportion of the said Money payable to your Majestie by the States, unto your Peticioners in Satisfaction of the said damages, and losses, concerning the said Shipps as aforesaid, or to grant them, some assignment, upon any branch of your Majesties revenue in liew thereof,
And your Peticioners, shall ever pray, &c.