To all who desire satisfaction in the case of oathes shewing how far under the law it was lawful to swear, and how that in any case under the Gospel it is forbidden / by William Holgate.


To all who desire SATISFACTION IN THE Case of Oathes, SHEWING How far under the LAW it was lawful To SWEAR; And how that in any case under the GOSPEL it is Forbidden.
By William Holgate.
Micah 6.8. The Lord hath showed thee, O Man, what is good; and what doth the Lord require of thee, but to do justly, to love Mercy, and to walk humbly with thy God?Acts 24.14. But this I confess unto thee, that after the way which they call Heresie, so Worship I the God of my Fathers, believing all things which are written in the Law and the Prophets.Prov. 20.28. Mercy and Truth preserve the King, and his Throne is upholden by Mercy.Isa. 1.10. We to them that decree Ʋnrighteous Decrees, and write grieviousness, by a Law that they have prescribed, &c.LONDON: Printed and Sold by Andrew Sowle at the Sign of the Crooked-Billet in Holloway-Lane in Shoreditch, 1683.
To all who desire Satisfaction in the. Case of Oathes.WHilst Israel stood in the Covenant with God, under the Dispensation of the Law given forth by Moses his Servant, they were in some cases allowed or commanded to Swear by the Lord their God, for per∣forming some special thing to the Lord, thereby binding their Souls by an Oath, or for Confirmation of a matter, whereby Strife was to end; but they were not to sware by any thing else, neither after the manner of the Aegyptians or Heathen: And if at any time they swore, it was to be done in Judgment, Mercy and Truth; for if they that were under that Dis∣pensation or Covenant, swore to do good, or to do evil unad∣visedly or rashly, or if any heard the Voice of any such Swearers, they, and those that sware to do good or to do evil, were to bear their Iniquity & be shut out of the Congregation of the Lords People for that Trespass, Lev. 5.1, 4 till the Priest had offered up a Sacrifice of Attonement for them, and they having know∣ledge thereof, confessed they had sinned in so Swearing.
Nevertheless, this Moses, who gave forth the Law unto Israel, said unto them, A Prophet shall the Lord your God raise unto you, of your Brethren, like unto me, HIM shall ye hear in all things, whatsoever he shall say unto you; And it shall come to pass, that every Soul which shall not hear that Prophet, shall be destroyed from among the People, Acts 3.22, 23.
And this Prophet was Christ, the end of the Law, who said, It is finished, John 19.30. which the holy Voice, Mat. 17.5. said, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased, hear ye him. And he commanded Israel, Mat. 5.37 Not to Swear at all, but that their Yea should be Yea, and their Nay, Nay. And
the same Jesus Christ said, He was greater than Solomon, Mat. 12.41, 42. and was David's Lord, who was and is to be heard and obey'd in all things; yea, whosoever shall break one of the least of his Commandments, and teach men so, shall be c