Some further account from London, of the small-pox inoculated. With some remarks on a late scandalous pamphlet entituled, Inoculation of the small pox as practis'd in Boston, &c. / By Increase Mather, D.D.


Some further Account from London, of the Small-Pox Inoculated. THE SECOND EDITION.With some Remarks on a late Scan|dalous Pamphlet Entituled, In|oculation of the Small Pox as practis'd in Boston, &c.By Increase Mather, D.D.THat Eminent Physician, Dr. Walter Harris, a Fellow of the Colledge of Physicians, entertained that Learned Society April 17. 1721. with a very Judicious Discourse, De peste, which he has now publish|ed, with a notable Appendix, De Inoculatione Variolarum, or The Small Pox Inoculated, (which was part of a Praelaction De Curatione Variolarum, afterwards made before the same Society.) He takes notice, that a plain, and most Innocent way (as he calls it) of Inoculating the Small Pox, found out among the unlearned Orientals, was now by the good Providence of GOD brought unto us, who are a great way distant from

them, ad comparandas, si DEO placeat, Variolas tutas ac benignas, that so we may have the Small Pox after a safe, and easy manner, in that Method, if GOD please graciously to smile upon it. And it arrives unto us the more seasonably (the Dr. says) because the Small Pox of the Confluent sort of late hath made fearful Destruction among People of high|er as well as lower Quality in the Nation: whereas the Inoculation duly managed, a Confluen|tibus Variolis contrahendis nunquam non servat Incolumes. mire{que} tuetur, forever preserves and wondrously defends People from suffering that sort of Small Pox, which has proved so dangerous.
He gives an Abstract of the Communication from Dr. Timonius to Dr. Woodward about this matter, which we have in the Philosophi|cal Transactions. He adds an Account of that Famous Doctors arriving to Great Riches as well as Learning, & receiving his Degrees at Oxford, and Padua, and his returning to his own Country, after many Travels abroad, & his refusing the pe|illous Honour, to be Physician to the Grand Segni|or; and yet coming to an untimely end in the midst of all his flourishing Circumstances. But then the Doctor makes his Acclamations, how much we are indebted unto him for his Good|ness in first Communicating so useful and un|known a method of safety from the Small Pox unto us!
The Doctor informing us from Timonius, of the way wherein the Inoculation of the Small-Pox
is managed at Constantinople; he prefers it before the way used upon the Three Chil|dren of the French Consul (reported unto the Dr. by an English Merchant at Aleppo,) which the Dr. says had too much of the Fantastick in it; and adds, Two Incisions are enough, and the further from the Brain and the Heart the better. But that he might confirm apud nos Saluberrimum usum Inoculationis Variolarum, the most profitable use of the Inoculation of the Small Pox among Us, which is found so safe and innocent (as he expresses it) and pre