Articles and orders, made and agreed upon the 9th day of July, 1747 and in the three and twentieth year of the raign of our soveraign Lord Charles, by the grace of God, King of England, Scotland, France, and Ireland, defender of the faith, &c. / by the Company of Adventurers for the Plantation of the Islands of Eleutheria, formerly called Buhama in America, and the adjacent islands to be observed and by all and singular adventurers, to planters and dwellers upon, and all resiants [sic] at the same islands.


Articles and Orders, made and agreed upon the 9th. Day of July, 1647. and in the three and twentieth Year of the Raign of our Soveraign Lord Charles, by the Grace of God, King of England, Scotland, France, and Ireland; Defender of the Faith, &c. By the Company of ADVENTURERS for the PLANTATION of the Islands of ELEUTHERIA, formerly called BUHAMA in AMERICA, and the adjacent Islands to be observed and performed by all and singular ADVENTURERS, to PLANTERS and dwellers upon, and all Resiants at the same ISLANDS.WHereas experience hath shewed us the great inconveniencies that have happened, both in this Kingdom of England, and other places, by a rigid im∣posing upon all an uniformity and conformity in matters of judgement and practice in the things of Religion, whereby divisions have been made, factions fomented, persecutions induced, and the publick peace endangered. And for that we well know, that in this state of darkness 〈◊〉•mperfection, we know but in part, That there are bothbabes and strongmen in Christ: And that every Member who holds the head, and is of the body of Jesus Christ, hath not the same place and office, nor the same measure of light, who yet desire and endeavour daily to increase in knowledge. And in the mean time walk according to what they have received, in all godliness, justice & sobriety. And whereas experience hath also shewed us, That the peace and happy pro∣gress of all Plantations, doth much depend upon the good government thereof, the equal distribution of justice, and respect to all persons, without faction or distinction, the certain knowledg and manifestation of every ones right and proprieties, and carefull provisions for common defence and safety.
It is therefore ordered, That all such person and persons, who are so as aforesaid qualified, shall be received and accepted as Members of the said Company of Adven∣turers, and into the said Plantation, notwithstanding any other difference of judgement, under whatsoever other names conveyed, walking with justice and sobriety, in their particular conversations, and living peaceably and quietly as Members of the Re-publick.
That there shall be no names of distinction or reproach, as Independent, Antinomian, Anabaptist, or any other cast upon any such for their difference in judgement, neither yet shall any person or persons, assume or acknowledge any such distinguishing names, under the penalty of being accompted (in both cases, either of imposing or accepting or assumi