The speeche vvhich the French King made to the Lords of the Parliament on the fifth of Ianuary. 1599 Faithfully translated out of French, by H.W.


THE SPEECHE WHICH THE FRENCH KING made to the Lords of the Parliament on the fifth of Ianuary. 1599.
Faithfully translated out of French, by H.W.
 [illustration] 
Imprinted at London by Iohn VVolfe, and are to be solde at his shop in Popes head Alley, neere vnto the Ex∣change. 1599.
The speech which the King made to the Lordes of the Parlement, on the 5. of Ianuarie 1599.BEfore I speake of that, for which I caused you to be héere assembled, I will tell you a historie, which euen now I put the Marshall De la Chastre in minde of.
Presently after S. Bartholmeus, foure of vs playing at Dice, sawe some drops of blood appearing on the Table, the which being wiped twice out, they still returned againe. And for the third time, I sayd I would play no longer, and that it was an Augure against them which had spilt it: The Lord Guise being one of the companie.
This talke ended, his Maiestie said as followeth.
YOu sée me in my closet, where I come to speake with you, not in Royall habitements, with my Rapier and Helmet, as my predecessors, norlike a Prince who in∣tendeth to speake to forraigne. Embassadors: but appar∣relled like a father of a familie, in a doublet, to speake fa∣miliarlie to his children. That which I haue to say, is to pray you, to verifie the Edict which I haue graunted vn∣to those of the Religion. That which I haue doone, is for the good of the peace, which I haue concluded with∣out, and I will now haue it within my Realme. You ought to obay me, although there were no other conside∣ration, but my qualitie, and the obligation of all my sub∣iects, and especially you of my Parlement. Some I haue replaced in their houses, from which they were banished: and other some in the faith which otherwise they would

not haue had. If the obedience was doone to my predeces∣sors: as much or more is dew to me, because that I haue reestablished the estate: God hauing chosen mee, to set me in the kingdome which is dewe to me by inheritance and purchase. The Lordes of my Parliament should not be in their seates without me. I will not vaunt nor boast, but thus much I will say, that I haue no other example to imitate, but my selfe: I know full well, that there hath béene great briberie: and that seditious preachings haue béene raised vp. But I will set good order for those men, and will not referre the same to you: It is euen the way which was taken, to make the Barricadoes, and to come by degrées to the murther of the late King. Naye I will looke to all that, I will cut the roote of all those factions, and of all factious Sermons, and will shorten all those which shall raise them. I haue leaped vpon the walles of Citties, I shall also be able to leape vppon your Barrica∣does, which are not so high. Alleadge not vnto me, the Catholique religion: I loue it better then you: I am more Catholique then you: I am the eldes