The hierarchy exalted and its enemies humbled a sermon preached on the first Sunday in Advent, being the 2d day of Decemb. 1660 : after the consecration of the Right Reverend Fathers in God, John, Lord Bishop of Durham, William, Lord Bishop of St. Davids, Benjamin, Lord Bishop of Peterborough, Hugh, Lord Bishop of Landaff, Richard, Lord Bishop of Carlisle, Brian, Lord Bishop of Chester, and John, Lord Bishop of Exceter in the Abby Church of St. Peters Westminister / by Nathanael Hardy ...


THE
HIERARCHY EXALTED
AND
Its Enemies Humbled.
A
SERMON
Preached on the first Sunday in
Advent, being the 2d. day of Decemb. 1660.
AFTER
The Consecration of the Right Reverend Fathers in God,
JOHN Lord Bishop of Durham.WILLIAM Lord Bishop of St. Davids.BENJAMIN Lord Bishop of Peterborough.HUGH Lord Bishop of Landaff.RICHARD Lord Bishop of Carlisle.BRIAN Lord Bishop of Chester, andJOHN Lord Bishop of Exceter.
In the Abby Church of St. Peters Westminster.
By Nathanael Hardy D. D. Chaplaine in Ordinary to
his Majesty, Dean of Rochester, and Rector
of St. Dionys. Back Church London.
LONDON,
Printed by Abraham Miller for Joseph Cranford, at the
Castle and Lion in St Pauls Churchyard, 1661.

Imprimatur.
M. Franck Reverendo in
Christo Patri Gilberto E∣piscopo
Lond. à Sa∣cris
Domesticis.Martij 14. 1660.TO THE
READER.WHen that bright Sunne
(of glorious memo∣ry)
having been for ma∣ny
years clouded by
an unnaturall Warre, did at last
through an unparalleld Treason set
in our Horizon, it was a red and
bloudy Evening.
After that Evening, followed a
black and dismall night, where in
the ravening Wolves and beasts of
prey domineered, worrying the
estates and lives of those who were loyal
and Orthodox.
That night hath by Gods just in∣dignation
against us, been measured to
us, not by hours but years, and
stretched out to a long continuance.
About the Beginning of the
Twelfth year of that Night, a
morning Star appeared, and that
not from the East, but North, To
whom it was the unanimous cry of all
Countries,Phosphore redde diem.
that he would be an happy instrument
(under God) to turn our night into
day.
Through the tender mercy of our
God, and his prudent conduct, our
desire was fulfilled. Not the same
Sun indeed (he shineth in the Hea∣ven
of the blessed) but another
(He who of right ought to succeed
him) arose as it were from the Sea,
gilding our desolate Land, with his
radiant Beams. His amiable light
hath ever since increased, and He is
now near the Meridian of his Coro∣nation;
Where being in the Zenith,
may he (like Joshuahs Sun,) stand
still, and that not for a few hours,
but many, many years, to the a∣mazement
of the eyes of Rebells,
and refreshment of the hearts of all
Loyal Subjects.
By the benigne aspect and influ∣ence
of this Sun, it is, that the fir∣mament
of our Church is now a∣gain
bespangled with Stars, and
those fixed in their various Orbes.
After the joyfull appearing of those
Two Stars of the first and second
magnitude, We have beheld three
severall Constellat