who were the uniform of an officer of Yeomanry Cavalry, rose, amid cheers, to move ""That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty for her Gracious Speech from the Throne. ""
He said: I have to crave the indulgence of your Lordships for the position in which I find myself, for not only is this the first time I have had the honour of addressing your Lordships, but I believe I might count myself the youngest Member of the House, this being the first occasion on which I have had the privilege of occupying my seat on these Benches.
I trust I shall not be transgressing any unwritten laws or traditions if I venture to refer to a subject which naturally has found no place in the Gracious Speech from the Throne.
Ten years ago it was my privilege on a similar occasion, and in another place, to express the hope that no cloud should cast its shadow over the celebration of the 50th year of Her Majesty's glorious reign.
Standing in this place, might I say that we look forward shortly to the completion of the 60th year of Her Majesty's reign, when we hope to celebrate with her an event unique in the annals of this country—the fact that she has surpassed in the length of her reign that of any of her predecessors on the English Throne?
[ Cheers . ]
I will leave to others of greater authority and experience, and it might be on a more befitting occasion, the task of dwelling, upon the splendid qualities of head and heart which have enabled Her Majesty to stamp the Victorian Era with the indelible impress of her own character.
[ . ]
The outrages and massacres in the Ottoman Empire have shocked all Christendom, but, terrible as the condition of things has been, I can conceive something more terrible still.
I can imagine the annihilation of the Armenian population in the event of a European war, owing to the refusal of any one or two Powers to act in concert, in preservation of the provisions of the Treaty of Paris.
A European war under such circumstances would indeed be horror heaped upon horror's head.
We are told that the conferences of the Ambassadors at Constantinople are still proceeding, but I trust that in his efforts to induce the Powers to act, as well as to deliberate and remonstrate in concert with one another, the noble Lord, the Prime Minister, will be backed, as he has hitherto been, by the sympathy and strength of a united nation.
[ . ]
I venture to say that the announcement as to the recent Egyptian campaign will receive general approval.
To restore to civilisation the Soudanese territories, which 13 years ago were lost to Egypt under such tragic circumstances, cannot fail to win the sympathy and assent of English people.
Your Lordships will share with Her Majesty the great gratification she has expressed at the conclusion of the Treaty for general arbitration with the late President of the United States.
[ . ]
If the eminent diplomatist of that country is happy in carrying away with him the consciousness that this great badge of friendship has