A funeral-oration upon Favorite, my Lady * * * lap-dog by a person of quality.


A
Funeral-Oration
UPON
FAVORITE,
My Lady 
Lap-Dog.
By a Person of Quality.
Immodicis brevis est oetas, & rara Senectus.Mart.Durum; sed levius fit patientiâ
Quicquid corrigere est nefas.Horat.LONDON, Printed in the Year, 1699.
Epistle Dedicatory
TO
URANIA.IT is your Command, Madam, that I should
make public the ensuing Oration on Favo∣rite,
and your Commands can be no more re∣sisted
than your Eyes. But besides, that it is
not in the power of your Slave to disobey
you, I can pay no less a Tribute to the Manes
of our deceas'd Brother in servitude, than to
give this public Testimony of the respect I
have for his Virtues.
Other Lovers not so disinteressed as my
self, might perhaps triumph at the death of
so considerable a Rival as was Favorite. But
I, Madam, who take share in all your Affli∣ctions,
am so far from rejoicing at it, and e∣recting
a Trophy on his untimely Destiny,

that I profess all the Consolation I can fetch
From Philosophy, from the Lyceum, the Porti∣cus,
or the Tusculanum, is not able to support me
under the deep sense I have of your unspeak∣able
Loss.
Nor can we condemn, or think unwarrant∣able
your Grief. Were not the World suffici∣ently
acquainted with the deserts of Favorite,
yet even those who were altogether strangers
to his good Qualities wou'd deduce a reasona∣ble
consequence, that there was something
most emphatically, most conspicuously shin∣ing
in him, which should prefer hint to Urania's
favour. For certainly a Woman of your Dis∣cernment,
a Woman so nice a Judge, and so
bountiful a Rewarder of Merit, whether in
Man or Brute, cou'd never bestow so plen∣tiful
a portion of your Kindness on a Dogg,
whose Endowment did not give him a title to
it. In fine, you fed, you cherished, you caress'd
him. By your Favour you rais'd him more
above the Animals of his own Species, than
Animals themselves are exalted above the in∣ferior
Vegetables.

'Tis true, he created some private Jealousies,
some Discontents in the Breasts of your Ad∣miters:
But to do publick justice to his ashes,
I must say that of Favorite, which cannot,
without manifest injury to truth, be affirm'd
of all the other Favorites of Princes, of the
Richelieus, of the Mazarins, of the Wolseys, of
the Buckinghams, of the Lerma's, and of the
Olivares, that in the Universal corruption of
a most degenerate Age, he preserv'd an un∣blemish'd,
an inviolable Integrity to his Mi∣striss;
that he did not give Intelligence to a
Forreign Court, of the private Resolutions
of State that were taken in the Cabinet at
home; that when Affairs of Importance
called her Abroad, he did not stay be∣hind
her, nor sleep ingloriously upon the
Couch; that he stood unmov'd, stood un∣shaken,
against all the Attacks of Bribes;
that he did not crush calamitous Merit be∣neath
him, nor supplant the Obstacle in his
way above him; that he never Smiled where
he intended to ruine. In shore, that he de∣spised
the little Artifices o