The transproser rehears'd, or, The fifth act of Mr. Bayes's play being a postscript to the animadversions on the preface to Bishop Bramhall's vindication, &c. : shewing what grounds there are of fears and jealousies of popery.


THE
TRANSPROSER
REHEARS'D:
OR THE
Fifth ACT
OF
Mr. BAYES's PLAY.
Being a POSTSCRIPT to the
ANIMADVERSIONS on the
PREFACE to Bishop Bramhall's
Vindication, &c.
SHEWING
What Grounds there are of Fears and Iea∣lousies
of Popery.
OXFORD,
Printed for the Assignes of Hugo Grotius, and
Iacob Van Harmine, on the North-side of
the Lake-Lemane. 1673.
A
POSTSCRIPT
TO THE
ANIMADVERSIONS
UPON THE
PREFACE
TO
Bishop Bramhalls Vindication.THE Author of the Animad-versions
upon the Preface to
Bishop Bramhalls Vindication,
&c. (if it be not too great a
favour to call him an Author
that writes a Book upon a Preface) ha∣ving
posted up a Play-Bill for the Title of
his Book: And here by the way, we can∣not
but congratulate his honourable em∣ploy,
and question not but to hear of his
being prefer'd from writing of Bills for
the Play-houses to penning of Advertise∣ments
for the Stage-Coaches and Bills for the
Pox, and after a proficiency therein, to be
admitted upon the next vacancy, to form
Draughts for the Arithmetick and Short-hand-men,
and frame Tickets for the Rope-dancers
and the Royall-Sport of Cock-fight∣ing,
that so he may arrive in a short time
to be Author of most of those ingenious
Labours which curious Readers admire at
Passing times in their passage between
White-hall and Temple-bar.
I say, this great Author (of Play-bills)
having in conformity to his pro∣mising
Title Transposed the Rehearsal,
or at least all of Mr. Bayes his Play extant,
four Acts. I thought it was great pitty so
facetious and Comical a work should re∣main
incompleat, and therefore I have
continued it on, and added the Fifth, the
Argument of which, and its dependance
on the other Four, I shall give you an ac∣count
of after a preliminary examination
of the Characters and Plot in our Authors
Transpos'd Rehearsal.
But before I proceed to either of these,
it will not be unnecessary to consider on
what bottom he has erected his Animad-versions,
and this I find to be no other
then the Preface to Bishop Bramhalls Vin∣dication,
which is as much as to say, here
is a House wrought out of a Portal. 'Tis
pretty I confess, and exceeds the power
of common Architects. But what fol∣lows

is more strange, that 100. pages (the
Preface is no more by his computation)
should be foundation sufficient enough to
support his mighty Paper-building of 326.
Now 'tis very probable, that which
gave the principal hint to our Authors
Rehearsal Transpros'd, was the near accord
he observes betwixt the Preface and Mr.
Bayes his Prologue, P. 14. and here, I can∣not
but applaud his admirable dexterity
that could extract four Acts of a Farce,
from a single Prologue, but such is the
singular felicity of some Animadverters,
(and of ours amongst the rest) in their
illustrating of Authors, that they have
h