A sermon at Paules Crosse, on behalfe of Paules Church, March 26. 1620. By the B. of London. Both preached and published by his Majesties commandment


A
SERMON
AT
Paules Crosse,
ON BEHALFE OF
PAVLES CHVRCH,
MARCH 26. 1620.
By the B. of London.
Both preached and published by his Ma∣jesties
commandement.
LONDON
Printed by EDWARD GRIFFIN for
ELIZABETH ADAMS. 1620.
PSAL. 102. vers. 13, 14.13. Thou shalt arise, and haue mercy
vpon Sion, for the time to fauour
hir, yea the set time is come.
14. For thy seruants take pleasure in
hir stones, and fauour the dust
thereof.
THE Verses are two, so are my
parts; the one belongeth to
God, Thou shalt arise &c. The
other to man; For thy ser∣uants
take pleasure &c. Both
these riuers of mercy, the waters that bee
aboue the firmament, and the waters be∣neath,
Mercy from heauen, and mercy
from earth, run into Sion; there is Collectio
aquarum, the subiect and sea of miserie,

and therefore the fitter vessell to receiue
mercy.
Mercy doth well to all sorts of men,
but especially to the houshold of Faith, Galat. 6.
therefore to Sion aboue all the parts of the
earth: And mercy commeth amisse at no
time; but how faire is mercy in a time of need?
Vt nubes pluviae tempore siccitatis, 35. Ecclis.
as a clowd of rain in the time of drought,
therefore, when the time, the set time to
haue mercy is come. And mercy is a
gracefull ornament in all sorts of men,
especially in those, that are the children of
God, Bee yee mercifull, as your heauenly Father
is mercifull. Luc. 6. therefore the seruants take
pleasure &c. But when wee haue all sayd
or done, the mercy of God is aboue all
his works, and therefore aboue the mer∣cies
of all men and Angels, O let me fall into
the hands of God, for his mercy is exceeding
great, but let mee not fall into the hands of men.
2 Sam. 24. therefore Tu exurgens, Thou
shalt arise and haue mercy vpon Sion.
All these parcells of my text, when I
consider them aright (me thinketh) they
walke togither, as the beasts and birds

that went into the Arke, all by couples.
First, here is God and his mercy, Tu
misereberis; but not without an accent.
Tu exurgens, thou shalt arise, and haue
mercy: that is, it is not a wishing and
woulding mercy, but a preuailing, spee∣ding,
releeuing mercy.
Secondly, here is Sion, and her misery;
for miserable shee must needs bee, that
standeth in need of mercy; but not with∣out
an accent. When it is come to that
extremitie, that the 〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉 of Sion is
brought to an 〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉, hir composition to
resolution, euen vnto the stones and dust
of it.
Thirdly, here is time, and times oppor∣tunity,
but not without an accent, of the
vtmost exigent, pressure and hazard of
time, that can be imagined; for it is time,
and with an 〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉, eccho, resound, againe
time, and with an 〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉, the very set and
appoynted time is come.
Lastly, here are the seruants of God, and
their charity; but not without an accent.
For it is such a ch