A discourse concerning the process of the general judgment. In which the modern notions of universal salvation are particularly considered. / By Nathanael Emmons, A.M. Pastor of the church in Franklin. ; [Two lines of quotation]


A DISCOURSE CONCERNING The PROCESS of the GENERAL JUDGMENT. IN WHICH The modern Notions of Universal Salvation are particularly considered.
BY NATHANAEL EMMONS, A. M. PASTOR OF THE CHURCH IN FRANKLIN.
Behold, I come quickly; and my Reward is with me,
To give every Man according as his Work shall be.
The SUPREME JUDGE.PROVIDENCE (Rhode-Island) PRINTED BY BENNETT WHEELER, 1783.
MATTHEW XXV. 31—46.When the Son of Man shall come in his glory, and all the holy angels with him, then shall he sit upon the throne of his glory. And before him shall be gathered all nations: And he shall seperate them one from another, as a shepherd divideth his sheep from the goats. And he shall set the sheep on his right hand, but the goats on the left Then shall the King say unto them on his right hand, Come, ye blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world. For I was an-hungered and ye gave me meat: I was thirsty and ye gave me drink: I was a stranger and ye took me in: Nak|ed and ye cloathed me: I was sick and ye visited me: I was in prison and ye came unto me. Then shall the righteous answer him, saying, Lord, when saw we thee an-hungered and fed thee? or thirsty and gave thee drink? When saw we thee a stranger and took thee in? or naked and cloathed thee? Or when saw we thee sick or in prison and came unto thee? And the King shall answer and say unto them, Verily I say unto you, inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me. Then shall he say unto them on the left hand, Depart from me, ye cursed, into everlast|ing fire, prepared for the devil and his angels. For I was an-hungered and ye gave no meat: I was thirsty and ye gave me no drink: I was a stranger and ye took me not in: Naked and ye cloathed me not: Sick and in prison and ye visited me not. Then shall they also answer him, saying, Lord, when saw we thee an-hungered, or a thirst, or a stran|ger, or naked, or sick, or in prison, and did not minister unto thee? Then shall he answer them, saying, Verily I say unto you, inasmuch as ye did it not to one of the least of these, ye did it not to me. And these shall go away into everlasting punishment: but the righteous into life eternal.
IT is the intention of this discourse, to explain and con|firm the sense of this passage of scripture. And since scripture is the best interpreter of itself, we shall com|pare

the various representations in the text, with the general tenor of the sacred oracles.
I. Our Lord here gives us a particular and lively re|presentation of the general judgment. "When the Son of Man shall come in his glory, and all the holy angels with him, then he shall sit upon the throne of his glory. And before him shall be gathered all