A treatise of baptisme: wherein is clearly proved the lawfulnesse and usefulnesse of believers baptisme; as also the sinfulnesse and vanity of infants baptisme. With many usefull instructions, concerning the same matter. Grounded upon Ephes. 4. 5. One lord, one faith, one baptisme. / By Robert Garner.


A TREATISE OF BAPTISME: Wherin is clearly proved the lawfulnesse and usefulnesse of Believers Baptisme; As also the sinfulnesse and vanity of Infants Baptisme. With many usefull Instructions, concerning the same matter.
Grounded upon Ephes. 4.5.One Lord, One Faith, One Baptisme.
By ROBERT GARNER.
PROVERBS 10.9.He that walketh uprightly walketh surely: But he that pervert∣eth his wayes shall be known.
PSAL. 119.126, 127, 128.It is time for thee, Lord, to work: they have made void thy Law. Therefore I love thy Commandements above gold, yea, above fine gold. Therefore, I esteem all thy Precepts concerning all things to be right: I hate every false way.
Printed in the Year, 1645.
To the Churches of JESUS CHRIST, in London, and elsewhere, in all places.BEloved in the Lord: My hearts desire to the Fountain of grace is, that you may receive abundantly from thence a multiplica∣tion of grace and peace, and a most rich enjoyment of the full assurance of understanding, to the acknowledgement of the mi∣stery of God, and of the Father, and of Christ: and that in every thing ye may be strengthened by him with all might, and enriched by him with all utterance, and with all knowledge, and replenished from him with that wisedome which is from above, and enabled by him to walk in ho∣linesse, love, and unity, and to stand stedfast in the Truth as it is in Jesus: that in all things he may be glorified by you. Beloved, our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ (whose I am, and whom I serve, in whom also I am your Brother and Servant in the Faith and fellowship of the Gospell) having brought to my hand some understanding and enjoyment of the doctrine of Baptisme, and the usefulnesse thereof as it concernes Believers, unto whom onely he hath alloted it: I did account my self bound in duty to make you partakers of his grace given to me, by recommending the same to your consideration, as it is propounded in the following Treatise. And the rather I was willing to do so, because (although I have seen the precious labours of some of my dear bre∣thren, to my edification, clearing the truth of the doctrine of Believers baptisme, and discovering the falsenesse of infants baptisme, in way of answer to such, or the arguments of such who pleaded so earnestly (though carnally) for the same) yet I have seen no Treatise positive∣ly and directly declaring the doctrine of Believers baptism, with the End and use thereof unto them. I beseech the stronger Brethren not to account this undertaking arrogancie or presumption in me, who am the unworthiest amongst the Saints. I have writ it, and sent it espe∣cially for the instruction and confirmation of the weaker: having con∣fidence (through the Lord