A letter sent to a worthy member of the House of Commons, concerning the Lord Shandois coming to Cisseter to execute the Commission of Array. Read in the House of Commons, and ordered to be forthwith printed. H. Elsynge, Cler. Parl. D. Com.



A LETTER SENT To a worthy Member of the House OF COMMONS, Concerning The Lord Shandois Coming to CISSETER To Execute the COMMISSION OF ARRAY.
REad in the House of Commons, and Ordered to be forth∣with Printed.
H. Elsynge, Cler. Parl. D. Com.
London, Printed by L. N. and I. F. for Edward Husbands and John Franck, and are to be sold at their shops in the middle Tem∣ple, and the Kings-head in Fleetstreet. August 22. 1642.
A LETTER Sent To a VVorthy Member of the House OF COMMONS.Worthy SIR,WEe are bold to present you with the passage of businesse, yester∣day at Cisseter in our County of Glocester, my Lord Shandois ha∣ving last weeke sent severall Let∣ters to divers of the principall of the Gentle∣men of our County to give him a meeting

then and there, our Country-men and the Voluntiers got notice of it, and apprehending that he came to execute the Commission of Array, there came at least a thousand Armed men to assist the Townsmen, who had with posts and chains fortified the Town to keep out horse, and they did all purpose to keep my Lord out of the Town, if he did not promise and protest that he did not come to execu•e the Commission of Array, which he solemn∣ly did to divers Gentlemen that met him upon Randcomb-down, and to some of the Towns∣men, who observing that he came not with a∣bove thirty persons, and those no weapons but swords, brought notice of it to the Town, and so he was admitted in, and after dinner the Justices of Peace and other Gentlemen being in conference with my Lord, the Soul∣diers and Arm'd men came and beset the house where they were, and demanded of my Lord, wherefore, and for what he came thither? he Answered that it was onely to confer with the Gentlemen for the peace of the County.
Then they required him to deliver up his Commission of Array unto them, or other∣wise they would bring him to the Parliament, at length upon meditation and intreat of the Gentlemen, the Souldiers were content to de∣part; if my Lord would put it under his hand that he would never execute the said Com∣mission,

nor any others for him in any part of this County, but would oppose and hinder it to his power, and that he would maintaine the Power and Priviledge of Parliament, and the Laws and Liberties of the Subjects, with his Life and Fortune, all which, being in ex∣treme fear, he condiscended unto, and a note being drawn to that purpose, My Lord, Sir Robert Tracy, and some others put their hands to it, which did in some sort pacifie the Soul∣diers, yet a great many not herewith content, did protest they would bring my Lord to the Parliament, and would not otherwise be sa∣tisfied a great while, yet with very much in∣treaty, about eleven of the clock at night they departed to their lodgings, intending to spe