An address delivered at the opening of Portsmouth Academy, on Easter Monday, A.D. 1791, by the Reverend John Cosens Ogden, Rector of St. John's Church.


AN ADDRESS DELIVERED AT THE OPENING OF PORTSMOUTH ACADEMY, ON EASTER MONDAY, A. D. 1791, BY THE REVEREND JOHN COSENS OGDEN, RECTOR OF ST. JOHN'S CHURCH.
PRINTED BY GEORGE JERRY OSBORNE, JUN. AT THE PRINTING-OFFICE, GUTTEMBERG'S HEAD, CONGRESS-STREET, PORTSMOUTH. M, DCC, XCI.
AN ADDRESS, DELIVERED AT THE OPENING OF PORTSMOUTH ACADEMY.THE BENEVOLENT mind must experience great pleasure in beholding means taking, and new institutions forming in various places, to educate our youth, and particularly that valuable part of our species, our young FEMALES. This subject has engaged the attention of some of our most beloved citizens in these states. They have justly consi|dered it, as a very important source of national prosperity. They wish so to conduct it, as will best accommodate it, to the state of society, man|ners and government in our country.
THE Principal of the Academy, now opened a|mong us, has called our attention, my friends and fellow citizens, to a design which it is in our power to make profitable to him, as well as beneficial to our children. The healthiness of our climate— the elegant manners of the people of this town, give us all necessary advantages: It is by our uni|ted aid that it may flourish, even if no assistance is derived from others.
WHEN we reflect, that early education tinctures or forms our character in a great degree, for life; we are irresistibly drawn to exert our utmost ability to afford our youth every possible advantage to gain the best. That small sum which industry and eco|nomy will give almost every parent, is far better bestowed, than a large patrimony joined with ig|norance. A knowledge of business every day pre|sents men with offices whose rewards are equal to the rent of large estates, and the annual interest of great sums—where these persons have not inherited a shil|ling, and possess no other riches than a good edu|cation.
BY instructing our females in those useful and ne|cessary branches of industry which are peculiar to

their sex, we also furnish them with a source of wealth and profit, which is necessary for all conditions in life; which may be laid aside when affluence per|mits, or assumed when adversity with its billows rolls trouble and indigence upon them.
THE mode in descent of lands—the very equal distribution of property—and the equality of rank in our country also demand, that every class of our citizens educate their children in the best manner possible. The great Creator of us all, has made no difference in the endowments of the head or heart, between the child of the monarch or of the peasant. Very rarely does the property of a frugal ancestor descend to the third generation. These ideas daily convince us, that a good education, principles of virtue, and useful acquirements, are to be sought as the most essential benefits for our children.
THIS