The first man, or, A short discourse of Adams state viz., 1. of his being made a living soul, 2. of the manner of his fall / by J.G.


THE FIRST MAN, OR, A Short Discourse OF ADAMS STATE: VIZ.1. Of his being made a living Soul.2. Of the manner of his Fall.
By J.G.
LONDON, Printed for Benjamin Allen in Popes-head-Alley, Anno Dom. 1643.
Adam a living Soul.WHat is a living soul?
A living soul is Man in innocency: The Scripture saith, the first man was made a living soul; Adam was perfect in reason, knowing all naturall things in the fulnesse of their nature, worth and excellency, observing and taking pleasure in the glory of God, which did shine in through, and over all the works of the most high: So that there was not any beauty or vertue in any thing, but he had the sence and summe of it within his owne Capacity or reason. He gave names to Creatures suitable to their natures, strength and vivasity; Moreover he knew the beauty of things in their seve∣rall causes, how they were knit together, and how this Union made a goodly Harmony; and although there were many things in nature contrary to each other, and considered in themselves, would destroy each other: Yet as they were ordered by the wisdome of the wisest, did unanimously agree with, and helpe each other. All things then were good both in themselves and in their severall effects: He knew no weaknesse or death in any thing, untill death first fell upon him, and then issued forth from him in, and upon all other Creatures. Hee knew himselfe to bee the chiefest of the way of God, and that God had more re∣spect to him then to any of all his creatures (I speak compara∣tively) so that there was nothing that could gaine upon him, or rob him of his heart that was without him. Put all things to∣gether without him, and all will scarse prove equall to him, ei∣ther for beauty, wisdome or heavenly knowledge; he knew God to be the upper ground of all things, both in their beings
and motions; And if there was any excellency in any of the creatures (as in all there was some) it was the scatterings of the same breath which breathed first life in him. As the light and beames of the Sun are guides to conduct our eyes to the seat and throne of the Sun, where it is in its being beauty and full form; so were all creatures as so many severall lights and beams of the glory of God to convey Adam to the Throne of the high, full and beautifull Majesty, in whom he knew all things did concen∣tre.
Doubtles he knew all things were borne up by the same arme which first gave them their beings, and he which gave them their beings, (I meane the Creatures) must be greater in being then they all, neither could they flourish any longer, then by the fulnesse and efficacy of that mighty being, they were repleni∣shed sutable to the greatnes and glory of the things which are seen, must things be which doth not appeare. And if the Hea∣then (as Paul saith) knew God in his invisible eternall power and Godhead: Surely Adam in these things k