The careles shepherdess a tragi-comedy acted before the King & Queen, and at Salisbury-Court, with great applause / written by T.G. ; with an alphebeticall catologue of all such plays that ever were printed.


THE Careles Shepherdess.
A TRAGI-COMEDY Acted before the KING & QUEEN, And at Salisbury-Court, with great Applause.
Written by T. G. Mr. of Arts.
Pastorem Tittere pingues Pascere oportet oves, deductum ducere Carmen.
With an Alphebeticall Catologue of all such Plays that ever were Printed.
LONDON,
Printed for Richard Rogers and William Ley, and are to be sould at Pauls Chaine nere Doctors commons, 1656.
The Argument.
NEre to Arcadia's fertile soyle there dwells
Two happie men whom scarce their like excells,
The one a Swaine, the other nobler borne
Both rich in Land and stor'd with fruitfull Corne.
These as in hopefull Children, they were blest,
So of much Wealth, and Meadowes were possest.
The richer of these two; Cleobulus
Had for his Heyre the stout Philaritus:
A sprightfull Youth, whose valour and whose worth
Exceld those Swaines the Sheapheards Dames brought forth.
He lov'd one Arismena, who for faire
Might with the purest of her Sex Compare.
She to blunt Bracheus was his onely Heyre
And wealthier in that Name then richer are.
She Carelesse seem'd: His Love increasd the more
That to a Feaver grew, which was before
A gentle heate. At length she condiscends,
Begs Pardon for her wrong, makes Him amends.
Their Parents crost their Love, ere long agree
And were themselves perplex'd with. misery.

Faire Castarina and Lariscus doe
Partake with them in their Affliction too.
Two, of whose fame the neighbouring Plaines were full,
The one was Tall, the other Beautifull.
These share in griefe, and when They fully thought
They had their Plots to happie Issues brought
Satyres creepe in, and in their height of joy
Their Peace their Comforts and their Hopes annoy.
The Lovers gave their Mistresses lost yet doe
Seeke a revenge. Themselves are taken too
All being now ensnar'd expect to die
Their Dirge is sung. On heaven fix their Eye
But in the midst of all their Griefes appeares.
Disguised Paromett, and quitts their Feares.
His Satyr's Shape pluckt off they grow againe.
Into their witts and wellcome him a Swaine.

Thus were their doubts exhaild and joyes increast
That peace is sweet'st which after warr's possest.
Praeludium:The Actors.Spruce, a Courtier.Sparke, an Inns of Court-man.Landlord, a Country Gentleman.Thrift, a Citizen.Bolt, a Door-keeper.Prologus.
THE SCENE. SALISBURY COURT.
Bot. A Door-keeper, sitting with a Box on one side of the Stage. To him Thrift a Citizin.THrift.
Now for a good bargain, What will you take
To let me in to the play?
Bolt.A shilling Sir.
Thri.
Come, here's a groat, I'le not make many words.
Thou hast just got my trick for all the world,
I alwayes use to ask just twice as much
As a thing's worth: then some pretend to have
Skill in my wares, by bidding of me half.
But when I meet a man of judgement, as
You have done now, they