The judgment and advice of the Assembly of the Associated Ministers of VVorcester-shire held at Worcester, Aug. 6th 1658 concerning the endeavours of ecclesiasticall peace, and the waies and meanes of Christian unity, which Mr. John Durey doth present, sent unto him in the name, and by the appointment of the aforesaid Assembly / by Richard Baxter ...


THE JUDGMENT AND ADVICE OF THE ASSEMBLY OF THE Associated Ministers OF VVORCESTER-SHIRE, Held at WORCESTER Aug. 6th 1658. Concerning the Endeavours of Eccle∣siasticall Peace, and the Waies and Meanes of Christian Unity, which Mr John Durey doth pre∣sent; sent unto him in the Name, and by the ap∣pointment of the aforesaid Assembly. By Richard Baxter Pastor of the Church at Kederminster.
LONDON.
Printed for T. Ʋnderhill at the Anchor and Bible in Pauls Church∣yard, and F. Tyton at the Three Daggers in Fleet-street, 1658.
THE JUDGEMENT AND ADVICE Of the Assembly of the Associated MINISTERS of Worcester-Shire.Our Deare and Reverend BROTHER.VPon the receipt of your Papers and Consideration of the Sub∣ject, as our hearts were moved with thankfulness to God, that hath given you so great a desire after the peace of the Church∣es, and so much patience in the Labours and Travels of so ma∣ny Years, for the obtaining of it; so we must needs resent it; as a thing that should Melt our Hearts within us, that ever there should need so much adoe, and that among Christians, yea the Leaders of Christs Flock, to bring them to so clear and great a Duty; Much more that after all such Labours, there is no more done.
For our selves, as far as we can understand your desires, we conceive that it is in three Particulars, that our return must answer theirs. First, In giving you our thoughts of the designe in generall. Secondly, In telling you our thoughts of the disease and cure more particularly. And Lastly, In offering you our correspon∣dence for the time to come, for the contributing our utmost assistance to the work.
X. And for the First, There's little needfull to be said. The designe doth so evi∣dently bear the name of the Prince of Peace, and answer the Precepts of his Gos∣pell, and the Workings of his Spirit in all his Saints, and is so happily suited to his interest and to the wellfare of his Church, that it pleads sufficiently for it self, and needeth not the Testimony of such as we. So blessed a thing is Peace, and a Holy Peace among the Members of the Body of Christ, that the Enemies and Vio∣ators of it do pretend to it, and none are found that oppose it professedly for it self; they all flatter it while they fight against it, and betray it with a kisse, and sm•le upon it while they are wounding of it, and extoll it with the highest praises

while they destroy it; condemning themselves by all that they say in its justifica¦tion: we scarce think that there is a man of all those, where your great unwearied Labours have least succeeded, and that are obstinately unpeaceable after all, but will joyn with you in extolli