Ferruginous syrup of red Peruvian bark, composed by Grimault & Co. chemists and druggists laureats of the Pharmaceutic School, Paris.


FERRUGINOUS SYRUP OF RED PERUVIAN BARK Composed by GRIMAULT & C. CHEMISTS AND DRUGGISTS LAUREATS OF THE PHARMACEUTIC SCHOOL, PARIS.For many years, chemists and other scientific people, have endeavoured to find out some combination which the medical world eagerly wished for and which would enable them to administer simultaneously IRON, which is the principle element of our blood, and PERUVIAN BARK, which is the most excellent of all tonic medicines.
The numerous attempts that had hitherto been made ended all in the same result, that of obtaining a black, thick, and disagreeable preparation, having the taste and smell of ink, without any of the beneficial properties of either Iron or Bark, which had mu∣tually destroyed each other.
After several attempts, and with the assistance of several distinguished practitioners, Mons. Grimault has succeeded in overcoming the difficulty by employing the pyrophos∣phite of iron and of soda, chemically neuter, which our chemistry recommended a few years ago and which physicians and scientific people allow to be superior to all other ferruginous preparations. This combination was most successful, and the combination of iron with the extract of red Bark (the dearest and best of all the different qualities of Bark) was perfect.
This production which is called the Ferruginous Syrup of red Peruvian Bark is a clear and limpid syrup of a fine red colour, it has no disagreeable taste and causes no unpleasant impression, and has no savour of iron. Thanks to its composition, it has the precious advantage of not causing those obstinate constipations resulting from the use of salts of iron and of always being willingly taken, even by young children and people of most delicate health.
Medical men will therefore find in the Ferruginous Syrup of red Peruvian Bark a first-rate preparation, on which they may always rely in treating cases of chlorosis, green sickness, debility, gastritis, gastralgia, weakness, want of appetite, impoverishment of the blood, etc.; in short, in all cases which require to be treated with iron combined with bitters and tonics.
Each tablespoonful of the Ferruginous Syrup of red Peruvian Bark contains exactly
 4 grains of salt of iron, and 2 grains of extract of red Bark. It is generally administered in doses of from two to four tablespoonfuls twice a day, i. e. half an hour before breakfast, and half an hour before dinner. The beneficial effects of this preparation become evident from the very beginning of its being employed.
To confirm the facts we have advanced, we are fortunately able to submit to the ap∣preciation of the medical world a few short observations of some of their fellow-practi∣tioners in Paris, whose scientific and honorable reputation is well known.
"I frequently prescribe Mons. Grimault's Ferruginous Syrup of red Bark, and feel much satisfaction in dec