Carmen pastorale lugubre A pastoral elegy upon the most lamented death of His Royal Highness, William, Duke of Gloucester / by J.F., Gent.



Carmen Pastorale Lugubre.
A
Pastoral ELEGY
Upon the most Lamented
DEATH
OF
His ROYAL HIGHNESS,
WILLIAM
Duke of Gloucester.
PALIDA mors; aequo pulsat pede pauperum tabernas,
Regum{que} turres.— —
Durum, SED levius fit patientia;
Quicquid corrigere est nefas.
Hor.By J. F. Gent.
LONDON:
Printed by W. O. for the Author, and sold by Bennet Banbury, in
the Lower-walk of the New-Exchange; and J. Nutt, near
Stationers-hall, MDCC.







A Pastoral ELEGY, &c.
Menalcas, Damon, Albania.
Menalcas.WHat sudden Cloud with Sable Wings o're-spreads
The Firmament! and hides the blooming Heads
Of Albion's brightest Stars? My trembling Breast,
Chill'd with a piercing Damp, refuses Rest;
Leaving my Fold, to Damon's Flock I'll go,
And ask the Sage, what means this dismal Woe.

Dam.]What Grief resides in dear Menalca's Soul?
Tell me, that I may with my Friend condole?
What means this Horrour? These amazing Eyes,
Somewhat extr'ord'nary does my Soul surprize;
Tell me at once whence these sad Omens flow?
For I am told, "'Tis Ease the Worst to know.

Men.]This Morn as to the Flocks my Course I bent,
Before the Sun its gilded Beams had lent,

A sudden Prodigy struck with Surprize
My trembling Soul, and fill'd my wond'ring Eyes;
I saw the Skies in all their Lustre clad,
Each dazling Light display'd its radient Head,
When tow'rds the North I turn'd my eager Sight,
A Sable Pyramid obscur'd the Light
Of some Britannick Star, where Empire sat,
Seeming to Challenge it with Laws of Fate:
Then saw its crystal yielding Rays remove,
Twinkle its last, obey the Pow'rs above;
Then strait the Cloud remov'd its Sable Tow'r,
Which to obscure had but one Moment's Pow'r;
When lo! the Star, before depriv'd of Light,
Mov'd in a crystal Heav'n far more bright,
Cut the Empyreal Air and yielding Sky,
Until it reach'd a Saphire Throne on high;
And thence a double Lustre seem'd to send
To th' Orbs, o're which it lately did intend.

Dam.]What this strange Sight portends I cannot tell,
I wish the Heavens mean us all Things well;
But lo! Albania, Mistress of the Plains,
That Entertain the fair Britannick Swains;

See she comes Weeping with dischevell'd Hair,
Meager her Looks, all discompos'd her Air,
And Sorrow overwhelms the lovely Fair.
Bearing a Prince's Ensign on her Head,
O're which the baleful Cyprus Leaves are spread;
Look how her Eyes with crystal Tears o'reflow,
Her wringed Hands are certain Signs of Woe.

Alb.]Arise ye British Swains, prepare, prepare,
Your Voices with a Mournful Fun'ral Air,
Tear off your Verdent Chaplets, and instead
Of them, with Sable Cyprus dress your Head,
Undo your tressed Hair, and role in Dust
Your milky Locks; such Rites alone are Just
To th' Memory of Him, you go to mourn,
Who all the Plains with Lustre did adorn.


Mourn, Mourn, ye British Swains, your Loss deplore,
Pollio is gone, the Royal Youth's no more.

See the sad Sc