Lot's little one. Or Meditations on Gen. 19. vers. 20. Being the substance of severall sermons sometimes delivered by William Ince Mr in Arts, late senior fellow of Trinitie Colledge Dublin. Published since his death, by R.I.


LOT'S LITTLE ONE OR MEDITATIONS ON GEN. 19. VERS. 20. Being the substance of seve¦rall SERMONS some∣times delivered By WILLIAM INCE Mr in Arts, late Senior Fellow of Trinitie Colledge Dublin. Published since his death, by R. I.
MATTH. 5. 19.Whosoever shall breake one of these least Commande∣ments and shall teach men so, he shall be called the least in the Kingdom of Heaven.
LONDON Printed by I. R. for the Kingdom of Ireland, and are to be sold by Iohn Crook and Richard Sergier, in Dublin, at the Signe of St Austin in Castle-street. 1640.
Imprimatur Tho. Wykes. August 26. 1640.
Reverendissimo in Christo Patri LANCELO TO, Providentiâ divinâ D•o Archi∣episcopo Dubliniensi Hiberniae Primati & Metropo∣litae, Has, fratris charissimi Gulielmi Ince, in artibus magistri, Colegii Sanctae Trinitatis Dublin nuper socii senioris, lucubrationes post∣humas, igni ab authore devotas, è Sybillinis veluti foliis (ut plu∣rimum) collectas, amore & curâ fraternis, luce & corpore donatas, in meritissimae, Tam authoris dum viveret, quam fratris superstitis ob∣servantiae testimonium, L. M. D. D. D. Clementiae vestrae servus à sacris addictissimus.
Randulphus Ince.
The Text.GEN. 19. VERS.18. ET dixit Lot ad eos, ô ne sic quaeso Domine mi.
19. Ecce nune invenit servus tuus gratiam in conspectu tuo, & mag∣nificasti misericordiam tuam erga me, servando vitam meam, & ego non potero liberare me ad montem, ne fortè aliquod malum capiat & moriar.
20. Eccenunc civitas ista propin∣qua ad fugiendum illuc, & ipsa exigua est, eripiam me nunc illuc, (nonne exigua est?) & vivet ani∣ma mea.
18. ANd Lot said unto them, ô not so my Lord.
19. Bebold now thy servant hath
found grace in thy sight, and thou hast magnified thy mercy, which thou hast shewed unto me in sa∣ving my life, and I cannot escape to the mountaine, least some evill take me and I dye.
20. Behold now this Citie is near to flee unto, and it is a little one, ô let me escape thither (is it not a little one?) and my Soul shall live.
GEN. 19. VERS. 18, &c.And Lot said unto them, O not so my Lord, &c.
THese words are a part of a prayer, that prayer of a story, a story almost as me∣morable as any, that was ever yet left upon re∣cord since the creation of man, and that is the destruction of So∣dom: upon which God indeed commanded the wife of Lot not to look back, and her hard heart of unbelief and disobedience trans∣formed her into a pillar of stone; so that she, that on Gods bidding would not goe, when she would, should now stand, stand an eter∣nall
monument of Gods dis∣pleasure against the children of disobedience.
Let it not awaken your won∣der, that where the Text sayes a Pillar of Salt, I say of Stone. It is consonant to reason, and the generall voyce of interpreters, that it was Salt rather, quoad spe