Scillaes metamorphosis: enterlaced with the vnfortunate loue of Glaucus VVhereunto is annexed the delectable discourse of the discontented satyre: with sundrie other most absolute poems and sonnets. Contayning the detestable tyrannie of disdaine, and comicall triumph of constancie: verie fit for young courtiers to peruse, and coy dames to remember. By Thomas Lodge of Lincolnes Inne, Gentleman.


Scillaes Metamorphosis: Enterlaced with the vnfortunate loue of
Glaucus. VVhereunto is annexed the delectable discourse of the
discontented Satyre: with sundrie other most absolute Poems and
Sonnets. Contayning the detestable tyrannie of Dis∣daine, and Comicall triumph
of Constan∣cie: Verie fit for young Courtiers to peruse, and coy Dames to
remember.
By Thomas Lodge of Lincolnes Inne, Gentleman.
O vita! misero longa, foelici breuis.
Imprinted at London by Richard Ihones, and are to be sold
at his shop neere Holburne bridge, at the signe of the Rose and Crowne.
1589.
TO HIS ESPECIALL good friend Master Raph Crane, and the rest of
his most entire wellwil∣lers, the Gentlemen of the Innes of Court and
Chauncerie. Tho∣mas Lodge of Lincolnes Inne Gent. Wisheth increase of worship
and continu∣ance in vertue.SVVeete Master Crane, I had not thought at this instant
to haue partaked my passions with the print, whose discon∣tented thoughts so
long in∣ured to obscuritie, were diuorsed many yeares since, from vaine glories
inordinate follie: but the base necessities of an extraua∣gant melancholie
mate, that had no other vnde of quod ad victum attinet, but
the fore∣stalling of other mens inuentions, made my vnperfit Poems (in spite of
waste paper) to hazard an apprenteship in Poules: so that, that which in the
first peeping foorth was  wholie predestinate to your friendship,
by an vnderhand marte, is made the mercina∣rie recreation of euerie ridiculous
mate. Our wits now a daies are waxt verie fruite∣full, and our Pamphleters more
than prodi∣gall; So that the postes which stoode naked a tedious non
terminus, doo vaunt their dou∣ble apparrell as soone as euer the
Exche∣quer openeth; and euerie corner is tooke vp with some or other penilesse
companion that will imitate any estate for a two pennie almes. I could afford
you whole seruices of absurdities, that would disquiet the disgesti∣on of Arte
vs{que} ad nausaeam, were it not that I pittie to particularize
simple fellowes im∣perfections, and am altogether loath to ad∣uenture my paines
in so vngratefull a Pro∣uince. For transformed Scilla how euer she
hapned now to bee disioyned from disdain∣full Charybdis; thinke not,
but if they haue good shipping they wil meete ere long both in one shop: and
landed they had at this in∣stant, in one and the selfe same bay, if
Scilla (the vnfortunater of the two) had not met with a needie pirate
by the way. Ariued shee  is, though in a contrary coast, but so
wrackt, and weather beaten, through the vnskilful∣nes of rough writers, that
made their poast haste passage by night, as Glaucus