Righteousness rained from heaven, or, A serious and seasonable discourse exciting all to an earnest enquiry after and continued waiting for the effusions of the spirit unto a communication and increase of righteousness, that faith, holiness, and obedience may yet abound among us, and the wilderness become a fruitful field / as it was delivered in a sermon preached at Harford Connecticut in New-England, May 10, 1677, being the day of election there by Samuel Hooker.


Righteousness Rained from Heaven, OR A Serious and Seasonable DISCOURSE Exciting all to an earnest enquiry after, and continued waiting for the effusions of the Spirit, unto a communication and increase of Righteousness: That Faith, Holiness and Obedience may yet abound among us, and the Wil∣derness become a fruitful field, As it was Delivered in a SERMON Preached at Harford on Connecticut in New-England, May 10. 1677. Being the Day of ELECTION there.
By Mr. Samuel Hooker, Pastor of the Church of Christ in Farmington.
Isai. 44. 3, 4.For I will pour water upon him that is thirsty, and floods upon the dry ground: I will pour my spirit upon thy seed and my blessing upon thine off-spring. And they shall spring up as among the grass, as willows by the water-courses.
Psal 80.19.Turn us again O Lord God of Hosts, and cause thy face to shine 〈◊〉 shall be saved.
Lam. 5.21.Turn 〈◊〉 unto thee O Lord and we shall be turned, 〈◊〉 our days a• of old.
Cambridge: Printed by Samuel Green. 1677.
Christian Reader;IT is an Observation certain and solemn, that Israels Holy one is none in a peculiar manner to bare witness against the wan∣tonness and sins of his Covenant people, that have been singu∣larly favoured and priviledged by him, Amos 3.2. You only have I known of all the Families of the Earth, therefore I will punish you for all your iniquities: The disobedient, regardless behaviour of his Sons and Daughters carrieth an excess of provocation, Deut. 32.19. When the Lord saw it he abhorred them, because of the provok•ng of his Sons and of his Daughters: In what awful and tremend•us manner the Lo•ds anger hath been of late in special, made to appear against his wilderness people, is not soon or easily to be forgotten: such an Adnersary (the worst of the Heathen, Ezek. 7.24. bruitish men, and skilful to de∣stroy, Ezek. 21.31.) stirred up against u•• the sword gone through the land, and thereby wasting and terror, de••ation and death, carried up and down: how have the mighty fallen, blood and flames abounded unto a fearful consumption in the midst of the earth? The Inhabitants of so many Villages made to cease even in Israel, and some Candlesticks also re∣moved out of their places. Alas for the vineyard that his own right hand hath planted, how hath he taken away the hedges thereof, t•at the Boar out of the wood sh•uld waste, and the wilde Beasts of the F•rrest devour it: w• h•v• been delivered to the Sword, Cap•ivity and Spoil: That the Lord is righteous in all his wayes, and holy in all his works, is