A sermon concerning sins of omission preached before the King and Queen at White-Hall, on March 18th, 1693/4, being Midlent-Sunday / by ... Edward, Lord Bishop of Worcester.


A SERMON CONCERNING Sins of Omission, Preached before the King and Queen AT WHITE-HALL, ON March 18th. 1693/4. being Midlent-Sunday.
By the Right Reverend Father in GOD, EDWARD, Lord Bishop of Worcester.
Published by Their Majesties Special Command.
LONDON, Printed by I. H. for Henry Mortlock, at the Phoenix in S. Paul's Church-Yard. 1694.
S. JAMES IV. 17.Therefore to him that knoweth to doe good, and doth it not, to him it is Sin.
ALthough our Apostle in this Epistle calls the Gospel the Law of Liberty, yet to pre∣vent any misconstruction thereof, as tho' it allowed a Liberty to sin, we no where find more strict and severe passages against it, than in this E∣pistle, both with Respect to Sins of Commission, and Sins of Omission. As to Sins of Commission, his Ex∣pression seems hardly consistent with the Grace of the Gospel; For whosoever shall keep the whole Law, and yet offend in one Point, he is guilty of all. Hath the Law of Moses any thing more apt to terrifie the Consciences of Men, if not to drive them in∣to despair, than this? It is not, If one breaks the whole Law; then it had been no wonder if he were guilty of all, even under the Gospel, which doth not take away the force of the Moral Law. But, If he keeps the whole Law; and yet offend in one Point; he is guilty of all. How is this agreeable with the Equity of the Gospel, to make a Breach of one Part to be a violation of the whole Law? Since he cannot keep the Law, and break it at the same



time; and so far as he did keep it, he could not be guilty of the breach of it; but, if he offended but in one Point, he must keep all the rest. It is not enough to say, that the Chain of the whole is broken, and the Authority of the Law-giver contemned; for there is a great difference between breaking a Chain, and breaking it all to pieces; there is no such Con∣tempt in the Breach of one Command, as of all; and he that keeps all the rest, seems to shew more regard to his Authority in keeping the other Parts of the Law, than Contempt in that wherein he of∣fends. What then is the Apostles Meaning? It is, that the Gospel doth not allow any wilfull Breach of the Law of God in any one kind or sort what∣soever; as appears by the following words, For he that said, Do not commit Adultery, said also, Do not kill; now if thou commit no Adultery, yet if thou kill, thou art become a Transgressor of the Law. What is before said, that he is guilty of all, is here explain∣ed, that he is a Transgressor of the Law. This cannot therefore be understood of any sudden Act of Passion and Surprise, nor of any Failings as to the Manner of our Duties, but of a wilfull delibe∣rate Practice of some one known Sin, although the Person may be carefull to avoid many others; Because this is not consistent with that Integrity of Mind, and that sincere Regard