An answere to certaine scandalous papers, scattered abroad vnder colour of a Catholicke admonition.


AN ANSWERE TO CERTAINE scandalous Papers, Scattered abroad vnder colour of a Catholick Ad∣monition.
Qui facit viuere, docet orare.¶ Imprinted at London by Robert Barker, Printer to the Kings most Excellent Maiestie.
ANNO 1606.
AN ANSWERE TO CERTAINE scandalous Papers, scattered. abroad vnder colour of a Catholicke Admo∣nition.HAuing lately re∣solued to recall my Thoughts from the earthly theatre, where they sate and beheld the variable motions of men, with those cares and cogitations which are the pro∣per companions of publike ministers, ho∣ping thereby to bee made partaker of their contentments, which borrow from publike Action, to giue to priuate Contemplation;
I perswaded my self, that I could neuer make choice of a better Subiect for my medita∣tion, then of the late Treatise, Intituled: His Maiesties Speach in the late Session of Parliament, together with a Discourse of the maner of the discouerie of this late intended Treason. Wherein, so many true and liue∣ly Images of Gods great fauour and proui∣dence, are represented: (Euery line discoue∣ring where Apelles hand hath beene) As all that obserue the naturall description of this Tree of Treason, amp; in Ramo & in Radice, may truely say, there needes no Elisha in our dayes, to tell the King of Israel, what the Aramites doe in their priuatest Coun∣cels. In this Princely and religious worke, his Maiestie (like to those kings of whome Seneca speaketh, that doe more good by Example then by Lawes) hath increased our obligation, by leauing vnder his owne hand, such a plaine & perfect Record of his owne true thankefulnes to Almighty God, for his so great and miraculous graces; as neither the present Time, nor ages to come can euer be so ingrate, as not to retaine the
same in perpetual memorie. A duety requi∣red by God of all his creatures, Non ad prae∣mium, sed ad honorem. For as amongst all the excellent faculties of the minde (next to the vnderstanding) Remembrance hath the precedencie, for necessitie and vse: So in the accompts of all those seruices we owe to God, (who desireth rather, wee should remember what he hath been to vs, then cu∣riously to affect what he is in himselfe,) Re∣membrance is the first, and the first cōman∣ded. In this facultie we excell die beasts, and imitate the Angels: For they being present beholde at once, GODS Good∣nesse and Loue, in the mirrour of his Dei∣tie; and wee vpon earth, (in the Table of his Workes) haue a present and full view of that which God is, by that, which hee doeth. So as, although we cannot see him in himselfe, yet we doe particularly see him in his means, especially in those great works of deliuerances and defences, which he pro∣uideth for whole Nations and people, a∣gainst publike and priuate practises. And therefore if wee shall grow forgetfull, or
thinke it sufficient for a day or a yeere to pay him our Tributes of humble thanke∣fulnesse, when th