A vindication of Sir VVilliam Lewis from one part of his particular charge by an undeniable evidence of ancient date.


A VINDICATION OF Sir VVilliam Lewis from one part of his particular CHARGE BY AN ƲNDENIABLE EVIDENCE OF Ancient Date.
London. Printed in the Year: 16••
A vindication of Sir William Lewis from one part of his particular Charge, by an undeniable Evidence, of ancient date.WHereas in the printed particular Charge of Sir Thomas Fairfax and the Army under his command a∣gainst the XI. Members pag 23. a∣mong other things, it is charged a∣gainst Sir William Lewis that he being heretofore (during these trou∣bles) Governour of Portsmouth

a Garrison for the Parliament, in which time he received much of the publique Treasure, for which HE HATH NOT YET GIVEN AN ACCOMPT. To manifest to all the world the Fals∣ness and injustice of this part of his Charge, (by which ye may guess at the truth of the residue) we have thought meet to publish to the world this ensuing Certificate of the Com∣mittee for taking the Accompts of the whole Kingdom, of the said Sir Williams Accompt touch∣ing the moneys pretended to be re∣ceived by him, as Governour of Portsmouth, long since presented to the House by the said Commit∣tee, with this special Encomium,

that they found it to be a very fair and just Accompt: which Certificate was thereupon allowed and confirmed by the special Order of the House, which Certificate follow∣eth in these words.
WE of the Committee appoin∣ted by Ordinance of Parli∣ament of the 22. FEBR. 1643. for taking the Accompts of the whole Kingdom, do hereby certifie and declare that on the 19. day of June 1644. Sir WILLIAM LEVVIS Knight de∣livered upon Oath, according to the said Ordinance, his Accompt for all moneys by him received since the first of August, 1642. to the the 8. of June 1643. to∣gether with his disbursments for the ta∣king in of PORTSMOUTH, pay of 〈◊〉 Garrison, and other occasions there, 〈◊◊◊…〉: which Accompt with

the Vouchers and Discharges touching the same, by him produced and left, we have examined, and find the receipts upon the said Accompt to be 13469 l. 19 s. 8. d. besides the summe of 1000 l. taken up at Interest of ALEXANDER HOLT the 17. of April 1643. upon the Bond of Sir WILLIAM LEWIS, Master WALLOP & Mr WHITEHEAD which in all amounts unto the summe of 14469 l. 19 s. 8 d. And we find that his disbursments amounts unto the summ of 14885. 16. 4. So that there remaineth due unto him, which he hath payd out more then he hath received, the summe of 415 l. 16 s. 8 d. besides the summe of 513 l. 15 s. 2 d. for the pay of 7 Companies in April 1643. which is secured unto him per an Ordinance of Parliament dated the 4 of May 1643. And the said Sir William Lewis, Mr Wallop and Mr Whitehead are to be secured by the State from payment of the afore∣said

summe of 1000 l. borrowed of Mr HOLT the 17. of April 1643. and from such Interest as is (or shal grow) due for the same. And having received the Vou∣chers of the said Sir WILL