A late voyage to St. Kilda, the remotest of all the Hebrides, or the Western isles of Scotland with a history of the island, natural moral, and topographical : wherein is an account of their customes religion, fish, fowl, &c. : as also a relation of a late impostor there, pretended to be sent by St. John Baptist / by M. Martin, gent.


A LATE VOYAGE TO St. KILDA, The Remotest of all the HEBRIDES, OR Western Isles of SCOTLAND. WITH A History of the Island, Natural, Moral, and Topographical. Wherein is an Account of their Customs, Religion, Fish, Fowl, &c. As also a Rela∣tion of a late IMPOSTOR there, pretended to be Sent by St. John Baptist.
By M. MARTIN, Gent.
LONDON: Printed for D. Brown, and T. Goodwin: At the Black Swan and Bible without Temple-Bar; and at the Queen's Head against St. Dunstan's Church in Fleetstreet. MDCXCVIII.
A LATE VOYAGE TO St. Kilda, &c.
〈1 page duplicate〉To the Right Honourable Charles Montague,Esq. Chancellor of His MAJESTY'S Exchequer, President to the Royal Society &c.SIR,THE Royal Society (in which you so worthily at this time Preside) having formerly done me the Honour to publish some of my Observati∣ons in their Celebrated Trans∣actions, it has now encouraged me to presume on your Patro∣nage, and made me prefix Your Great Name to this little Essay.
The World is in general so well acquainted with those no∣ble Endowments and great Abi∣lities, for which our most Wise
and Discerning Monarch so early raised You to the highest Places of Trust and Dignity, that only these poor Islanders of whom I Write, seem to be unhappily excluded from the knowledge of those many rare and excellent Virtues, which under Your Ad∣ministration do so signally Bless Mankind; of all which no One seems so necessary for me to im∣plore, as that of Your extraor∣dinary Goodness; which, I hope, will incline You to accept of this plain and humble Ad∣dress, as also to pardon the pre∣sumption of,
SIR,Your most Humble and Obedient Servant, M. MARTIN.The PREFACE.MEN are generally delighted with Novelty, and what is represented under that plausible invitation seldom fails of meeting with acceptance. If we hear at any time a Description of same remote Corner in the Indies Cried in our Streets, we presently conclude we may have some Divertisement in Reading of it; when in the mean time, there are a Thousand things nearer us that may engage our thoughts to better purposes, and the knowledge of which may serve more to promote our true Interest, and the History of Nature. It is a piece of weakness and folly merely to value things because of their distance from the place where we are Born: Thus Men have Travelled far enough in the search of Foreign Plants and Animals, and yet continue strangers to those produced in their own natural Climate. Therefore I presume that this following Relation will not prove unprofitable or displeasing, unless the great Advantages of Truth and unaffected
plainness may do it a prejudice, in the Opi∣nion of such as are more nice and