The fountain opened: or, The great Gospel priviledge of having Christ exhibited to sinfull men. Wherein also is proved that there shall be a national calling of the Jews : From Zech. XIII. 1. / By Samuel Willard, teacher of a church in Boston. ; [Three lines of quotations]


THE Fountain Opened: OR, The Great Gospel Priviledge of having CHRIST exhibited to Sinfull Men.
WHEREIN Also is proved that there shall be a National Calling of the JEVVS From Zech. XIII.1.
By Samuel Willard, Teacher of a Church in Boston.
1 Cor. 2.2.I determined not to know any thing among you, save Jesus Christ, & him Crucifyed.
Si Christum discit, satis est si caetera nescis.Boston in New-England, Printed by B. Green, and J. Allen, for Samuel Sewall Junior. 1700.
To the READER.SƲCH is the fulness of Sufficiency in Christ, that no words can enough ex|press it: for which reason the Holy Scriptures set him forth under the shadow of many Metaphors, which require a Spiritual improvement; all of which put together make up but a dark & deficient description of him: and yet every one of them Commends him to us as an Object worthy of our Love & Trust, inasmuch as they represent him one every way furnished to answer all our wants, which can no where else be supplied; and, but for whom we must needs have pe|rished in them. The following Sermons set him forth as a Fountain, and such an one as is Opened to miserable men, together with those Vertues which do more eminently flow from him as such, for the abundant supply of all those that partake in him: and withall it gives us the comfortable notice of a more pe|culiar & glorious Revelation and Applica|tion of it, to be made in these last days.

If thou hast known, what it is to be in a dry and thirsty land, where no Water is, this will be good News to thee. If thou hungrest and thirstest after Righteousness, this will give thee direction. If thou hast ever tasted that he is gracious, thou wilt here find Re|freshment. If thou art at a loss about the dark Providences which are upon the Christi|an World, thou wilt here find matter of en|couragment, in prospect of the better Times wherein this Fountain will be wonderfully exhibited.
Touching the Sermon that is subjoyned to this short Treatise, I need not to apologize for the Seasonableness of Publishing it, unto such as understand the Genius of the Age we live in. If any thing in these Papers may serve to win Souls to CHRIST, and confirm his Redeemed in their Love of Him, and promove Evangelical Holiness, I have my desire. To his Blessing then I Commend them and thee, Who am
Thy Servant for Christ's sake, Samuel Willard.THE Fountain Opened, &c.ZECH. XIII.1.In that day there shall be a Fountain Opened to the House of David, and to the Inhabitants of Jerusalem, for Sin, and for Uncleanness.
ZEchariah was one of those Extraor|dinary Prophets whom God raised up and sent to the Jews, after their return from Babylon. He was con|temporary with Haggai, and began his Ministry about two months later,