The sacramental controversy brought to a point. The fourth dialouge [sic] between a minister and his parishoner [sic]. A reply to the parishioner's letter, concerning qualifications for Christian communion; lately printed at New-Haven. / By Joseph Bellamy, D.D. ; [Nine lines of Scripture texts]



THE SACRAMENTAL CONTROVERSY BROUGHT TO A POINT.
THE FOURTH DIALOUGE Between a MINISTER and his PARISHONER.
A REPLY To the Parishioner's Letter, con∣cerning Qualifications for Christian Com∣munion; lately printed at New-Haven.
By JOSEPH BELLAMY, D. D.
Sacraments are holy Signs and Seals of the Covenant of Grace.
Confession of Faith.None shall be admitted as Members, in order to Com∣munion in all the special Ordinances of the Gospel, but such Persons as—credibly profess cordial Sub∣jection to JESUS CHRIST.
Heads of Agreement.As we assent to the forementioned Heads of Agreement, so we unanimously resolve, as the Lord shall enable us to practise according to them.
Synod at Say-Brook.NEW-HAVEN: Printed by T. and S. GREEN.




The Fourth DIALOGUE Between a MINISTER and his PARISHIONER.
Parishioner.SIR, three times I have been with you here∣tofore, to get my child baptized; and I am now come to make you a fourth visit, with the letter, lately printed at New-Haven, in my hand.

Minister.I am willing, Sir, and ever have been, to oblige you in all things wherein I lawfully may. And particularly, I am willing to baptize your child, if you, really understanding the true import of the action, are wil∣ling to offer your child in baptism; even, to dedicate it to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; in whose name it is to be baptized. But, if you do indeed love God so well, as that you are willing to give him your child, to be his for ever; why are you not as willing, to give him your self? And why should you not, first of all, give your self up to God thro' Jesus Christ; and then, after that, give your child to him? In this way God will become your covenant God and Father in this world, and your eternal portion in the next. This is all I wait for. And this is what I have, from the beginning, been urg∣ing upon you, as your immediate, indispensible duty. You remember what I said to you in your first visit,
if you love God so, as to be willing to have him for your por∣tion; if you love Christ so, as to be willing to deny your self, take up your cross and follow him; you may have your choice: you may do as you like: Come, for all things are now ready. And if you would now in fact make this choice, it would put an end to your present

difficulties about your child. Nothing, therefore, can hinder the baptism of your child, but your continuing to reject God and the Redeemer, by which you practi∣cally renounce your own baptism, and forfeit all the blessings of the covenant.— And you remember my parting words in your last visit,
every circumstance of your own soul, and every circumstance of your dear offspring, calls upon you, without delay, to awake, and to turn