An easie entrance to the Latine tongue ... a work tending to the school-masters's eas, and the weaker scholar's encouragement in the first and most wearisome steps to learning / by Charles Hoole ...


An easie Entrance TO THE LATINE TONGUE:
Wherein are contained
I. The Grounds of Grammar, and their Examination.II. A Vocabularie of common-words English and Latine.III. Sundrie and short Examples appliable to the Rules of Concordance and Construction.IV. Collections out of the lowest School-Autors.V. More elegant Expressions for Children.VI. The first Principles of Christianitie.
A work tending to the School-Masters's eas, and the weaker Scholar's Encouragement in the first and most wearisom steps to learning.
By Charles Hoole M.A. somtimes Master of the Free-School at Rotherham in York-shire; and now Teacher of a private Grammar-School in Gold∣smith's-Allie neer Cripple-gate, London.
In this I rejoyce, that I learn somthing, that I may teach.
Sen. Epist. 6.LONDON, Printed by William Du-gard for Joshuah Kirton, and are to bee sold at his shop at the Gold-spread-Eagle in Pauls-Church-yard. 1649.
Aditus facilis AD LINGUAM LATINAM:
In quo continentur
I. Rudimenta Grammatices & eorundem Exa∣minatio.II. Vocabularium dictionum maximè vulgari∣um Anglo-Latinarum.III. Vari• & brevicula Exempla, Regulis Con∣cordantiae & Constructionis applicabilia.IV. Collectanea ex infimae classis Autoribus.V. Phrases Pueriles.VI. Elementa Christianitatis.
Opus, quo, & Praeceptorum in docendo, & Discipulorum in discendo taedium facil•ùs devoretur, in primo & difficillimo ad doctrinae iter ingressu.
A CAROLO HOOLE, A.M. Scholarchâ quondam liberae Scholae Rotherhamiensis in agro Ebor; nunc autem pri∣vatae Scholae Grammaticae Institutoris in Aurisicum viculo juxta Clinicorum portam Londinensem.
Sen. Epist. 6.In hoc gaudeo, me aliquid discere, ut doceam.
LONDINI, Excudebat Guilelmus Du-gard, impensis Joshuae Kirton, in cujus officinâ ad Auream aquilam-passam in Coemeterio Paul no veneunt. 1649.
Martii 30. 1648.Nihil feliciùs discitur, quàm quod ab ipsâ statim pueritiâ discitur. Eras.
Imprimatur.
Jo. Langley.The Testimonie of two eminent School-masters concerning the Autor.HAveing had good and sufficient demonstra∣tion of Mr. Charles Hoole's abilities, for the Teaching and ordering a Grammar-School: which I duly apprehend both from my conference with himself, and by his Writeings tending to that purpose; and shewing how maturely hee hath considered, and throughly weighed and judged of matters of chief concernment for that pur∣pose; I do hereby certifie all, who may desire notice hereof, that I conceiv him to bee a man of Skill, Dexteritie, and Activitie, and manie waies fitted for the Governing and Teaching a Gram∣mar-School; and educateing youth in all good Li∣terature for the Universitie.
In token whereof I have hereunto subscribed my hand. May. 10. 1642.By mee Thomas Hayne late School-Master of the Citie of London's School in Christs-Church.Idem testatur etiam Simon Humfrey Sc