A looking-glass for the Jews wherein they may clearly see that the Messiah is come, by the prophets in the Old Testament (above sixteen hundred years since) and the manifest testimonies since. And also, they may see their own blindness and ignorance of their own prophets, and of the Messiah unto this day. By which my desire is, they may turn to him, that their eyes may be opened, that they may see him whom they have pierced. By G. F. To which is added, a paper writ formerly to the Jews who assemble in Bevers-Marks, London, to be read and considered by them; with a few queries for them to answer. By G.W.


A Looking-Glass FOR THE JEWS: Wherein they may clearly see that the Messiah is come, by the Prophets in the Old Testament (above Sixteen Hundred Years since) and the ma∣nifest Testimonies since.
And also, they may see their own Blindness and Ignorance of their own Prophets, and of the Messiah unto this day.
By which my desire is, they may turn to him, that their Eyes may be opened, that they may see him whom they have pierced.
By G. F.
To which is added, a Paper writ formerly to the JEWS who assemble in Bevers-Marks, London, to be read and considered by them; With a few Queries for them to Answer.
By G. W.
And thou Bethlehem Ephratah art little to be among the Thousands of Judah, yet out of thee shall be come forth unto me, that shall be the Ruler in Israel, whose Goings-forth have been from the Beginning, and from Everla••ing, Mic. 5.2.Printed in the Year 1674.
A Perfect and Plain TESTI∣MONY to the JEWS, that the MESSIAH is come, according to the Pro∣phets.DAniel was a man greatly beloved of God, who interpreted Nebu∣chadnezar's Dream: And Nebu∣chadnezar's Dream concerned himself, and the whole Monarchy, the Head of Gold; and concerned the Persian-Monarchy, the Breast of Silver; and concerned the Greci∣an-Monarchy, the Belly and Thighs of Brass; and concerned the Roman-Monarchy, the Legs of Iron, and the Feet of Iron and Clay: And the breaking of all these to pieces as the Chaff of the Summer Threshing-Floor, and the Wind carrying them away, that no place for them was found: And it was the Stone that smote the Image of Gold, &c. and be
 came a great Mountain, that filled the whole Earth? And is not this Stone the Messiah? For Daniel saith, Whom ye do believe as a Pro∣phet and Beloved of God, in the dayes of these Kings shall the God of Heaven set up a Kingdom,which shall ne∣ver be d•stroyed (mark, in the dayes of these four Monarchies) And the Kingdom shall not be left to other People; but it shall break in∣to pieces and consume all these Kingdoms, and it shall stand forever; The Stone which was cut out of the Mountain without Hands it shall break into pieces the Brass, and the Clay and Iron, the Silver and the Gold Monarchies. Now Nebuchadnezar did say to Daniel, Of a Truth his God was the God of Truth, and the God of Gods, and the King of Kings, &c. So now, consider, was not N•buchadnezar beyond you in your Be∣lief? And did not the Messiah co