The means, nature, properties and effects of true faith considered. A discourse delivered in a public assembly of the people called Quakers. / By Thomas Story.


The Means, Nature, Proper∣ties and Effects of true Faith considered. A DISCOURSE Delivered in a PUBLIC ASSEMBLY OF THE PEOPLE CALLED QUAKERS.
BY THOMAS STORY.
PHILADELPHIA:—RE-PRINTED AND SOLD BY WILLIAM GIBBONS. No. 144. NORTH THIRD STREET. 1793.
SOME HEADS of the following DISCOURSE.THE first Means of Faith toward God, is the Works of the visible Creation.
The second Means of Faith toward God, and Jesus Christ the Lord, are the manifold Testimonies under the Law of Moses; the Prophecies of the Prophets in divers Ages of the World, many hundreds of Years before they came 〈◊〉, and the Scriptures of the New Testament, testi∣fying that: 〈◊〉 Predictions are accomplished in Christ the Messah.
The third Means of Faith which God hath given unto Mankind, is the preaching of the Gospel by the Minis∣ters of Christ, chosen, appointed, and qualified by ••nself.
The fourth and most excellent Means of Faith in God the Father, and in Jesus Christ the Son of God, is the Divine Light, the Spirit of Truth in the hearts of all Mankind, in the Ages, Times, and Parts of the World, and his inward Works in Man.
An Exhortation to forsake Sin and Self, being contrary to the Nature and Attributes of God, and some Unbelievers crept in, &c.
The State of the Nation of Great-Britain with respect to Religion, when Friends were first raised and made manifest as a People, and what they were at that Day; with an Exhortation to this Generation to embrace the same Truth, not by Tradition only, but rather, and chiefly, by the holy Spirit, &c.
With divers other Truths in the Whole, as well Practi∣cal as Speculative.
The Means, Nature, Properties and Effects of true Faith.In a SERMON preached at Horslydown, the 24th day of December 1738, in a meeting of the people called Quakers, by Mr. Thomas Story.IT is written in the holy scripture. That "without faith it is impossible to please God," which I think plainly implies, that by faith we may please him. And if we should be so injurious to the divine attributes, and hurtful to ourselves in our highest interests, as to think of the Almighty, that he is such a Being as that we can never please him, or to conceive an indis∣pensible duty incumbent upon us to please him, and yet that to remain impossible for us, would be the most me∣lancholy Thought, and we should be the most miserable of all creatures.
But seeing the Lord is to be pleased by faith, and not to be pleased without it, we may hope and expect, con∣sidering the attributes of his infinite goodness and mer∣cy; that he hath, or will afford the means of faith; and it is expressly said, that faith is the gift of God.
As to the means of faith towards God, that he is, That is afforded to mankind in general; though there is an order of persons among them of whom the Lord doth not require faith, that is of infants, because they ar