The charter, constitution and bye laws of the College of Physicians of Philadelphia. Instituted in MDCCLXXXVII.



THE CHARTER, CONSTITUTION AND BYE LAWS OF The College of Physicians of Philadelphia.
INSTITUTED IN MDCCLXXXVII.
PHILADELPHIA: PRINTED BY ZACHARIAH POULSON, JUN. IN FOURTH-STREET, BETWEEN MARKET-STREET AND ARCH-STREET. MDCCXC.




AN ACT FOR THE INCORPORATION OF The College of Physicians of Philadelphia.WHEREAS the Physicians of Philadelphia, influenced by a conviction of the many advan|tages which have arisen from literary institutions, have associated themselves under the name and title of The College of Physicians of Philadelphia.
AND WHEREAS, the objects of this College are to advance the science of medicine, and thereby to lessen human misery, by investigating the diseases and reme|dies which are peculiar to this country; by observing the effects of different seasons, climates and situations upon the human body; by recording the changes which are produced in diseases, by the progress of agriculture, arts, population and manners; by search|ing for medicines in the American woods, waters, and in the bowels of the earth; by enlarging the avenues to knowledge from the discoveries and publications of foreign countries; and by cultivating order and uni|formity in the practice of physic.
AND WHEREAS, the said College of Physicians have prayed us, the Representatives of the Freemen of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, that they may be created a body politic and corporate, for ever, with such powers, privileges and immunities as may best

answer the laudable purposes which the members there|of have in view; wherefore to assist and encourage the said College of Physicians in the prosecution and advancement of useful knowledge, for the benefit of their country and of mankind:
Be it enacted, and it is hereby enacted, by the Representa|tives of the Freemen of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, in General Assembly met, and by the authority of the same, That the members of the said College of Physicians, that is to say, John Redman, John Jones, William Shippen, junior, Adam Kuhn, John Morgan, Benjamin Rush, Samuel Duffield, Gerardus Clarkson, George Glentworth, Thomas Parke, James Hutchinson, Ro|bert Harris, John Carson, Benjamin Duffield, William W. Smith, John Foulke, Samuel Powel Griffitts, William Clarkson, William Currie, Benjamin Say, Andrew Ross, John Morris, Nathan Dorsey, James Cuningham, Caspar Wistar, junior, Michael Leib, and John H. Gibbons, be, and the same persons are, and shall be a body corporate and politic in deed and in name, by the name and stile of "THE COLLEGE OF PHYSICIANS OF PHILADELPHIA," and by the same name, they and their successors, are hereby constituted and confirmed one body corporate and politic in law, to have perpetual succession, and to be able and capa|ble to have, hold and enjoy, any goods and chattels, lands, tenements, rents, hereditaments, gifts, and be|quests, of what nature soever, in fee simple, or fo