An act for making navigable the river of VVye. Thursday, the 26th of June, 1651. Ordered by the Parliament, that this Act be forthwith printed and published. Hen: Scobell, Cleric. Parliamenti.


AN ACT For making NAVIGABLE THE River of Wye.
 [illustration]  [seal of the Commonwealth] 
Thursday, the 26th of June, 1651.
ORdered by the Parliament, That this Act be forthwith Printed and Published.
Hen: Scobell, Cleric. Parliamenti.
London, Printed by John Field, Printer to the Parliament of England, 1651.
AN ACT For making Navigable the River of Wye.WHereas the making and effecting of a Passage for Barges, Boats and Liters by the Ri∣ver of Wye, running through the Town of Guildford in the Coun∣ty of Surrey into the River of Thames, at a Town called Weybridge, will be very advanta∣gious for the Commonwealth, Be it therefore Ordained and Enacted by the Authority of this present Parliament, That it shall and may be lawful to and for the Major for the time being, and approved Men of Guildford; or James Pitson, John Howe of Guildford Esqs; John Waltham of Shallowford, and Richard Scotcher of Guildford afore∣said Gent. or any other person or persons at their own Costs and Charges, to cleanse, scour, and make Navigable the said River of Wye, and to cut and dig a new River or Trench for the better effecting of the said Navigation, in the most convenient places where they shall think fit; and to take away all Trees and Roots, and remove all Impediments that may any way hinder the said intended Passage or Navigation; And to erect and make Locks, Weres, Turn∣pikes,
 Pens for water, and Wharfs to lay on Timber, and all other Materials that shall be brought to or from Guildford, where they shall think fit; and to amend and alter such Bridges as may hinder the said Passage, leaving them as fit for Carts, Waggons, Horse and Foot, as they were before; and to do all other things necessary for the better conveniency of the said River and Passage, and for the repairing and amending of the same from time to time, and at all times hereafter. And for that the making of the said Rivers and Passages Navigable, may not be prejudicial to the Inheritance and profit of divers persons that have Land adjoyn∣ing to the said Rivers and Passages, and through which the said Rivers and Passages shall be cut; Be it therefore further Enacted by the Au∣thority aforesaid, That the Lords Commissio∣ners for the Great Seal of England, may ap∣point and authorize by Commission under the Great Seal of England, twelve Commissioners within the County of Surrey, whereof three to be named by the said Lords Commissioners, and three to be named by the said Major for the time being, and the approved men of the Town of Guildford, or the major part of them, and six by the Free-holders of the County, at some County there to be holden, whereof notice shall be given at the County Court before, to the end as many Free-holders may appear at the Electi∣on as will; which said Commissioners, or the greater part