The counterfeit convert discovered, or, William Haworth's book, entituled (The Quaker converted to Christianity re-established) refuted wherein his absurd assertion, viz. that our (own) righteousness consists in the gifts and vertues which the spirit of God works in our minds &c. is manifested ... / by John Crook and William Bayley ; also an answer to the postscript at the end of William Haworth's wicked pamphlet called An Antidote &c. by C.T.


THE Counterfeit Convert DISCOVERED, OR William Haworth's Book, entituled [The Quaker converted to Christianity re-established] Refuted. Wherein his absurd Assertion, viz. That our [own] Righteousness consists in the Gifts and Vertues which the Spirit of God works in our Minds, &c. is manifested. The Doctrine of Justification by a Righteousness wholly without us, Examined. His several Arguments to prove the first Risings in the Heart to Evil to be the Sins of Unconsenting Persons, Answered. And his several Scoffs, Falsehoods, Slanders, Contradictions and Confusions, in the said Book, Represented.
By John Crook and William Bayley.
Also an Answer to the Postscript at the End of William Haworth's wicked pamphlet called An Antidote, &c By C. T.
Rabanus on Job 33.4Quantum est periculis his qui scripturas sensu corporeo legunt (i. e.) In what Danger are they that read the Scriptures in a carnal Sense.
Luther on Gal. 2.16.Christ apprehended by Faith, and dwelling in us, is our Righteousness, for which we are justified, or reputed Just.
To whom shall I speak, and give Warning, that they may hear? be∣hold their Ear is uncircumcised, and they cannot hearken; behold the Word of the Lord is unto them a Reproach, they have no Delight in it,
Jer. 6.10.They have healed the hurt of the Daughter of my People slightly, say∣ing, Peace, Peace, when there is no Peace,
Jer. 6.14.TO THE READERAS the fining Pot for Silver (saith Solomon) so is a Man to his Praise; but as a wash-pot to the Filth, so is an evil Man to his Shame. William Haworth's Book of twenty four Sheets is as this wash-pot, which is filled with the Filth of Scoffs, Slanders, Falshoods, Contradictions and Confusions, as by this Rejoynder is made manifest; Unhappy Man, that is a Ham to himself, and a Judas to that Truth which once he tasted.
For rebuking his Rebellion, and reproving his hard Language, he hath fallen upon me, as the Men of Sodom did upon righteous Lot, for seeking to stop and turn him, as the just Man did his Neighbours from the Way of their Wickedness: But he being impatient of all Admonition (for that Cause) hath abusively called we Knave, Jugler, Cheat, Mountebank, &c. as the Sodomites pressed sore upon the Man, even Lot.
But (as one saith) when Men are resolved to walk in the Sparks of their own kindling, and shall not only re∣ject, but vilifie and scorn the Admonitions of the Almigh∣ty, by what Hand soever administred, it is a Sign that
 Destruction is coming upon them like an armed Man; and it is said of Hophni and Phyneas the Priests, That t