A letter from the Lord General, dated the one and twentieth day of July, to the Right Honorable William Lenthal Esq; speaker of the Parliament of the Common-wealth of England. Shewing the great mercies of almighty God in the late success given to the Parliaments forces in Scotland, against the enemy there. Friday, the 25 of July. 1651. Ordered by the Parliament, that this letter be forthwith printed and published. Hen: Scobell, Cleric. Parliamenti.


A LETTER FROM THE LORD GENERAL, Dated the One and twentieth day of July, TO THE Right Honorable William Lenthal Esq; Speaker of the Parliament of the Common∣wealth of ENGLAND. Shewing the great Mercies of Almighty God in the late Success given to the Parliaments Forces in SCOTLAND, Against the Enemy there.
Friday, the 25 of July. 1651.ORdered by the Parliament, That this Letter be forthwith Printed and Published.
Hen: Scobell, Cleric. Parliamenti.
London, Printed by John Field, Printer to the Parliament of England. 1651.
Friday the 25 of July. 1651. A LETTER FROM THE Lord General, Dated the One and twentieth of July, 1651 was this day Read; viz. FOR THE Right Honorable William Lenthal Esq; Speaker of the Parliament of the Common-wealth of England.SIR,AFter our waiting upon the Lord, and not knowing what course to take for in∣deed we know nothing but what God pleaseth to teach us) of his great mercy, we were directed to send a Party to get us a
Landing by our Boats, whilest we marched towards Glascow. On Thursday morning last Col. Overton with about Fourteen hun∣dred Foot, and some Horse and Dragoons, landed at the North Ferry in Fife: We with the Army lying neer to the Enemy (a small River parted us and them) and we having Consultations to attempt the Enemy with∣in his Fortifications; but the Lord was not pleased to give way to that Counsel, purpo∣sing a better way for us.
The Major General marched on Thurs∣day night with two Regiments of Horse, and two Regiments of Foot, for better se∣curing the Place, and to attempt upon the Enemy as opportunity should serve: He getting over, and finding a considerable Body of the Enemy there (who would probably have beaten our men from the place, if he had not come) drew out and fought them, He being two Regiments of Horse, and about Four hundred of Horse and Dra∣goons more, and three Regiments of Foot; the Enemy five Regiments of Foot, and about four or five Regiments of Horse; they
came to a close Charge, and in the end total∣ly Routed the Enemy, Have taken about Forty or fifty Colours, killed neer Two thousand, some say more; have taken Sir Iohn Brown (their Major General, who com∣manded in chief) and other Colonels and considerable Officers killed and taken, and about Five or Six hundred Prisoners. The Enemy is removed from their Ground with their whole Army, but whether we cer∣tainly know not.
This is an unspeakable Mercy, I trust the Lord will follow it until he hath per∣fected Peace and Truth: We can truly say, we were gone as far as we could in our Counsel