The pope's farwel, or, Queen Ann's dream containing a true prognostick of her own death : together with the extirpation of popery out of these realms by King Edward the 6th, but especially by Queen Elizabeth of ever-blessed memory : being translated out of a book written in her reign, and by her allowed to be printed / written originally in Latine verse by Mr. Christopher Ockland, and printed in the year 1582 ; together with some few remarques upon the late plot, or non-con-conspiracy.


THE POPE'S Farwel; OR, Queen Ann's Dream. Containing a true Prognostick of her own Death, Together with the extirpation of Popery out of these Realms by King Edward the 6th. but especially by Queen Elizabeth, of ever-blessed me∣mory; Being Translated out of a Book Written in her Reign, and by her allowed to be Printed. Written Originally in Latine Verse by Mr. Christopher Ock∣land, and Printed in the Year 1582 Together with some few REMARQUES Upon the Late PLOT, OR, Non-Con-Conspiracy.
ENTRED according to Order.
Printed by J. M. for T. W. a true lover of the Church of England, as now Establish'd by Law.
THE Pope's Farewel; Or, Queen Ann's Dream.WHen Arcto's does the Northern Pole disclose,
When Men, and Dogs, and Mortals all repose,
Then Morpheus in my Unkle's shape appears,
Who had been dead and bury'd several Years;
His Head was ball'd, his face o're-grown with Hair,
He calls to me (Dear Daughter) do not fear;
I am your Unckle, (though you be a Queen)
VVho dwell in Regions never to be seen
By Mortal Eyes, where life is truly so,
Free'd from all grief, debauch, and worldly woe;
To live at this rate, is indeed to live,
To live a Mortal I would little give:
Then haste, I pray you, come and be a Bride
T'our Saviour Christ, Come all ye Saints beside,
VVho lives in Heaven, and has Built the Skies,
There to bestow upon His Flock a Prize
Peace and true Ioys, with Rest for evermore,
Free from all Change; this is the Prize in store.
What profit honours here upon the Earth?
Or Princes Glory? is't not the Peoples Breath?
What profit Riches, or the best attire?
Since, whence they sprang, they all must turn to mire.
Can they give health, or can they change the mind?
Where Satan and mens lusts are both combin'd
To crush the Soul? or will pale Death be brib'd,
By these, to stay? and lay its Darts aside?
 All things are fading which from Earth do spring,
Look you to Heaven, there behold your King.
But why should I thus speak? Good Queen attend,
I onely come to tell you as a Friend,
That Hellish envy lurks in Princes Courts,
'Midst all their Games, Divertizements and Sports;
And look where any's great, and does excell
In Vertue, those it always aims to quell;
'Tis still contriving, never out of breath,
Still closely aiming at its Objects Death,
 Englands Great King having of late discry'd
The See of Rome, their projects, and their pride,
Commands forthwith that none shall it obey
In his Dominions, or the Pope bear sway;
Nor shall hereafter hither send his Bulls,
To pick up Gain