An abstract of certain depositions, by vertue of His Majesties commission, taken upon oath,:  concerning the traiterous intention of the rebels in Ireland, in rejecting the government of His Majestie, in having a king of their own: and who that king should be. With an extract of a letter from Rome, 4. Jan. 1641. Published by His Majesties command.


AN ABSTRACT OF Certain Depositions, By vertue of His MAjESTIES Commission, taken upon Oath, Concerning the Traiterous intention of the Rebels in Ireland, in rejecting the Government of His Majestie, in ha∣ving a King of their own: And who that King should be.
With an Extract of a Letter from Rome, 4. Jan. 1641.
Published by His Majesties Command.
 [illustration]  [Tudor rose]  [illustration]  [Scottish thistle]  [illustration]  [French fleur-de-lis]  [illustration]  [depiction of Irish harp] 
LONDON: Printed by ROBERT BARKER, Printer to the Kings most Excellent Majestie: And by the Assignes of JOHN BILL. 1642.
 [illustration] C RDIEV ET MON DROITHONI SOIT QVI MAL Y PENSE [royal blazon or coat of arms] An Abstract of the Depositions by vertue of His Majesties Commission, taken upon Oath, concerning the traiterous intention of the Rebels, in rejecting the Government of His Majestie, in having a King of their own: And who this King should be.GEorge Cook of Lissignie,inter coe∣tera, deposeth, that one Tirlagh O Gowne, alias Smith, a Popish Priest, said, That the Papists would have their Churches, Lands, and Kingdom to themselves from the English, and be no more slaves to the English, as they had been, or else they would lose their lives.
Richard Colley, of the Parish of Kinnallie,in∣ter coet. deposeth, that Bryan O Cormacke of Dristernan, and other Rebels said, They would never submit to any English man.
Thomas Magill, Clerk, inter coet. deposeth, that Collogh, Mac Brian, Mac Mahowne, and severall other Rebells, said, That they would not be subject to any Parliaments in England, and that they would have none to Govern o∣ver them, but a born Irish man.
Matthew Browne of Clonisse, Gent. inter coet. deposeth, that he heard Peter Bath say, That they looked to have the King to put out the words Defender of the faith; for none was su∣pream of the Church, and Defender of the Faith, but the Pope.
Richard Whitton of Kilvane,inter coet. de∣poseth, that Luke Birne of Kilvane said, He would have their Religion flourish, no thanks to the King.
Edward Deaselye,inter coet. deposeth, That Luke Toole and Luke Birne offered a Passe to this Examinant, which they said, would be better then the Kings Passe.
Thomas Taylor of Kilmore,inter coet. depo∣seth, that he heard Mulmore O Kely say, That if the said Deponent would deny the King, he should speed as they did.
William Wright of Culmonyn,inter coet. de∣poseth, that John Good of Clonaysawne, and Dermot Mac Phelmi said, That they hoped to have all Protestants hanged within one fort∣night, and he that did protect them too.
Richard Knowles of Newtowne,inter coet. de∣poseth, that