The history of Wales comprehending the lives and succession of the princes of Wales, from Cadwalader the last king, to Lhewelyn the last prince of British blood with a short account of the affairs of Wales under the kings of England / written originally in British, by Caradoc of Lhancarvan ; and formerly published in English by Dr. Powel ; now newly augmented and improved by W. Wynne ...


THE HISTORY OF WALES.
Comprehending the Lives and Succession OF THE PRINCES of WALES, FROM CADWALADER the last King, to Lhewelyn the last Prince, of British Blood.
WITH A short Account of the Affairs of WALES, under the Kings of England.
Written originally in British, by Caradoc of Lhancarvan; and formerly published in English by Dr. Powel.
Now newly augmented and improved by W. WYNNE, A. M. and Fellow of Jesus Colledg, Oxon.
LONDON: Printed by M. Clark, for the Author, and are to be sold by R. Clavell, at the Peacock at the West-End of S. Pauls. 1697.
TO THE Right Revd Father in GOD, HUMPHREY Lord BISHOP of BANGOR.My Lord,WHEN I had finished the following Book, I was not long to de∣termin under whose Patronage I should make it publick; your Lord∣ship's Extraordinry Knowledge in all the British Antiquities, especially that Part which relates to the Welch, justly claiming what I now make bold to offer to your Favour. For it seems to be as Natural a Design of a Dedication, to present one's La∣bours to the greatest Judge, as to him who is the greatest Encourager of his Writings; and if so, my Lord, this single Reason would sufficiently ju∣stify me from any Presumption, in submitting the following Papers to your Lordship's Protection. But where the Obligation is corroborated by an equal Engagement; and since your Lordship has been pleased to encourage and promote the Design before it came to any Growth, I hope, I may safely present now in its perfect Strength and Vigor, what you were then pleased to receive in its Infancy.
The History of our Country, my Lord, has been so much neglected, that there seems a very great Neces∣sity of reviving, what to the gene∣rality of the Kingdom, is almost lost;
 and there are too many, otherwise very Learned Persons, nay, some of our own Nation, who are so great Strangers to this Subject, that they are almost ignorant, that there is such a History in being. We have hopes indeed, that from your Lordship's Excelling Knowledge in the Welch History, and other British Antiqui∣ties, with those Curious Collections, you have with great Labour made towards that Matter, and from others now Travelling the same good Way; we may expect, that the World shall receive such Information relating to our Country, that they who have hitherto despised our History, will be ready to Light that Candle which they now purposely extinguish, and ignorantly undervalue. In the mean time, if by the following History, I can revive the Memories of the seve∣ral Princes therein contained, which in the English Histories, are either to∣tally omitted, or but partially i