A narrative of the life and conversion of Alexander White, aet. 23. Who was executed at Cambridge, November 18, 1784, for the murder of a Captain White, at sea. : Containing extracts from his manuscripts, and some letters written by him a short time before his execution.


A NARRATIVE OF THE LIFE AND CONVERSION OF ALEXANDER WHITE, Aet. 23. WHO WAS EXECUTED AT CAMBRIDGE, NOVEMBER 18, 1784, FOR THE MURDER OF A CAPTAIN WHITE, AT SEA. Containing extracts from his manuscripts, and some letters written by him a short time before his execution.
Printed and published, BY POWARS AND WILLIS, IN BOSTON.
The following is the account that ALEXANDER WHITE gave of himself to a person who visited him, a short time before his death.THAT he was born in Ireland; had not been favoured with a religious education. —That he early gave himself up to a sea-faring life.—Had never been guilty of any vices but such as are common to sailors.—That he had enjoyed a good degree of reputation, and had been employed both as a mate and master of a vessel; in which stations he had conducted himself in such a manner, as to obtain the ap|probation of his employers.—That he had fallen in love with a young woman of some family and property (whose name he prudent|ly chose to conceal) but that whenever he thought of his own poverty, he felt mortified. —That in his PRIDE, the horrid temptation that proved his disgrace and ruin, and that cost an innocent man his life, took rise.—That he had the promise of a mate's birth on board a vessel then gone to the West-Indies:—And that as her time of arrival was uncertain, he concluded to step on board the schooner in which he committed the murder, that he might pass away the time, and do some little matter for himself.—That when he was off Long-Island, and never before▪ did the temptation

to kill the Captain and a passenger, seize him. He thought with himself that if he could kill those two men, who were all the people on board, himself excepted, and possess their pro|perty, he should be able to look the young woman and her friends in the face.—He was asked, Whether he was not shocked at the idea of murder?—No, replied he, I was as fixed and determined as it was possible to be, 'till I had done it.—How did you ac|complish it? With a sigh and tears in his eyes he answered, I knocked him over board.— Did you kill him with the blow, or did he drown? I believe he drowned, said he.— —How did you feel when you had killed him? —My determination was, replied he, to kill the passenger, and then possess the vessel.— What prevented you putting your purpose into execution?—As soon as the passenger began to struggle with me, I found myself, said he, as feeble as a child, and he bound me with ease.—What were your feelings after you found yourself confined?—I feared, said he, that I should lose my life for it: but I formed a story that would have saved me, provided I had abode by it: which was this that the man who bound me was the murderer: and as there were bu