Pasquils mistresse: or The vvorthie and vnworthie woman VVith his description and passion of that furie, iealousie.


PASQVILS Mistresse: Or THE WORTHIE AND vnworthie woman. VVith his description and pas∣sion of that Furie, Iealousie.
¶Imprinted at London, for Thomas Fisher, and are to be soulde at his shoppe, at the Signe of the White Hart, in Fleetestreete. 1600.
❧ THE BEST MERI∣riest wit in true honest kindnesse, not king Humfrey, but Humfrey King, God and a good wife make a happie man in this world.LVstie Humfrey, honest wagge, hea∣ring, of late, of your determination, to enter into the honourable course of kindnesse (which, after many mad Roundes, will be the best daunce to continue with) hopeing that you are olde enough to knowe what is good for your selfe, and yet not so wilful in conceipt, but you will take aduisement of your good friends; for the better instruction of your iudgement in this loues lawe-case, I haue thought good to set you downe such notes wor∣thy memory, as may giue you great light, in the best way to your comfort: where, finding the true description of the worthy, and vnworthy woman, you may, by gods helpe, make a choyce worth the chusing. Pasquill sent them to me, and I to you;

hoping, that if they be not as they should be, you will blame him, and not me. So, wishing thine honest heart as good fortune as my selfe, and as much better as shall please God; if you light well, to be glad, but not proude of it; if other∣wise, to be as patient as your poore friendes (hoping, that you wil finde a iewell worth the kee∣ping, and drosse but worth the discarding) I cō∣mit my booke to your kinde reading, & my loue to your like keeping: and so rest
Your affectionate friende, Salohcin Treboun.❧ To the Reader.PASQVILL, as you haue heard, ha∣uing had many madde humours in his heade, could neuer be at quiet in his heart, till he had eased his minde of his melācholy: now of late, leauing boyes play to goe to coytes, to put toyes out of his heade, fell to studie of loue: which, finding out a Mistresse for his humour, put his wits to many good seruices, scarce worthie the reci∣ting. But, in briefe, he was so graueled in the admiration of her perfections, that he look't so farre into her minde, as made him haue minde almost of nothing else; till, fin∣ding the varietie of her inclination, hee grewe out of loue with loue: his mistresse was but a dreame, and wo∣men were strange creatures: if they were as they should be, they were to hard to come by: if, as too many be, they were better lost than founde. And in this quandarie of quimeddledy, how now (according to the olde country Rounde, Take the best, and leaue the worst, and breake none of the pale) hee hath written his minde of all that came to his thought, hoping the best will be quiet, and the rest wil mende. And so, wishing euery man to take his fortune, as patiently as hee may, and to speake as well of him, as he list, he rests, after his olde fashion,
Pasquill.❧ Pasquill, in general,