An account of the life and death of the Blessed Virgin according to Romish writers with the grounds of the worship paid to her, and a preface in answer to the Apology for the Contemplations, &c. / by a lay hand.


Imprimatur,
HEN. MAƲRICE.June 7. 1687.AN ACCOUNT OF THE Life and Death OF THE Blessed Virgin, According to Romish Writers.
WITH THE Grounds of the WORSHIP paid to Her. AND A PREFACE in Answer to the Apo∣logy for the Contemplations, &c.
By a Lay Hand.
LONDON: Printed by H. Clark, for Thomas Newborough at the Star in St. Paul's Church-Yard, 1687.
To J. C. D. D. Author of the Contemplations, &c. and the Apology.SIR,I Present You here with A Short Account of the Life and Death of the ever blessed Virgin, collected from Authors truly Catholick, and zealous Devoto's; such, as in all likelihood, had long ago performed your Eight Acts of Special Devotion to∣wards her. If I could have got my self to have made some Resolutions, some Affe∣ctions, Praises, Versicles, Responses, Les∣sons and Anthems, to have turned Psalms of David from our Lord to our Lady, and composed some hobling Hymns, with a Covenant at the last, I am persuaded this Book might have passed for a Second Edi∣tion with some Alterations, of Contempla∣tions on the Life and Glory of Holy Mary. There is so near an Affinity between the
i Doctrines of them both, the Authors are so very like, the Matter and Substance of them is so very much the same, that I think I have sufficient claim to your Pa∣tronage; and may reasonably shelter my self under the Protection of your Apolo∣gy, which will serve for the one, as well as the other: and I cannot but congratu∣late the good fortune of my Book, that it was born with its Defence ready made. To give you my judgment freely on the matter, • verily believe your two Books are a more fair and full Exposition of the Doctrine of the Council of Trent in this Point, than what our Representer, Mr. de Meaux, or his Vindicator have given us; be∣cause the Universal Practice of your Church is concordant with, and corre∣spondent to Your Principles, but by no means to Theirs. For what an intolle∣rable injury must there be done to plain natural sence, what extreme violence must there be used, to pull and reduce to a plain Ord pro▪ nobis, such noble and exalt∣ed flights, such vast, exuberant, seraphical and supereminential strains, as are every where to be met withal in the Authors of the Virginal Sodality?
iiAnd thou, O most glorious and powerful Mo∣therof God, pity me, and protect me; for thou art highly acceptable to God, canst obtain Mercies, and wilt procure a Mission of Angels to relieve me, that my Soul may rejoyce in thy fulness and bounty.
Wherefore (for the same reason) now forever, I chuse thee, O glorious Mother of Jesus, to be my Patroness, Advocate, and Adoptive Mo∣ther, admit me, O powerful Queen of Angels, amongst thy Clients: Suppress my Enemies; Ma∣nage my Cause in the Court of our Requests, &c.
—And thou, O Mother of Mercy, dost stillsollicit my