A sermon preached in a country-audience on the late day of fasting and prayer, January 30 by a priest of the Church of England.


A SERMON Preached in a Country-Audience On the late Day of Fasting and Prayer, JANUARY 30. By a Priest of the Church of England.
〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉.
Orig. contra Celsum lib. 8.The eyes of the Lord are upon the righteous, and his ears are open unto their cry.
Psal. 34.15.LONDON, Printed for Richard Chiswell at the Rose and Crown in St Paul's Church-yard. 1679.
IMPRIMATƲR,
Feb. 20. 1678/9.Guil. Sill.A SERMON Preached in a Country-Audience On the late Day of Fasting and Prayer, JANUARY 30.1 TIM. li. 1, 2.I exhort therefore that first of all Supplications, Prayers, Intercessions and giving of thanks be made for all men:
For Kings and all that are in authority, that we may lead a quiet and peaceable life in all godliness and honesty.
I Know no time more seasonable to recommend to you this great and general Duty of Prayer, Pray∣er for our selves and others, Prayer for the whole body of the Nation, prayer for all men, than up∣on this day of Solemn publick Fasting and Prayer.
I know no time more seasonable to recommend to you the especial duty of Prayer for Kings and Magi∣strates, than upon this day which gives us so sorrowful a remembrance of the fatal fall of the best of Princes, and therein too evident a proof of the great dangers that even such are exposed to, and consequently of the great need they stand in of our Prayers. And I know no words more proper to mind you of the duty of Prayer in general, or of this particular duty of Praying for Kings and Governours, than these of our Apostle: which contain a fatherly admonition of Paul, the aged, to his Son Timothy, That in the oversight of his Dio∣cess he would take special care that solemn-Prayers be duly put up to Almighty God in the several assemblies of Christians.
1. For all Men, not only for Believers, but for In∣fidels; not only for Friends and Relations, but for Ene∣mies and Persecutors.
2. For Men of Place and power, for Kings and all that are in authority. After which,
3. He propounds a motive to procure Prayers for such especially, viz. that we may lead a quiet and peaceable life in all godliness and honesty; That ho∣liness and righteousness may be so encouraged and pro∣moted by the religious care and zeal of those that are in authority,that we may enjoy the fruit of righte∣ousness, which is peace, and the effect of righteous∣ness which is quietness and assurance for ever.
I exhort therefore, that first of all, supplications, prayers, intercessions and giving of thanks be made for all men: For Kings and all that are in authority, that we may lead a quiet and peaceable life in all god∣liness and honesty.
These several words, Supplications, Prayers, Inter∣cessions,are generally understood to signify several sorts of Prayer; The first 〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉, deprecations of evil, whether of sin, or punishment. The second 〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉, petitions