England's weal & prosperity proposed, or, Reasons for erecting publick vvork-houses in every county for the speedy promoting of industry and the woollen manufactory, shewing how the wealth of the nation may be encreased, many hundred thousand pounds per annum, and also that many thousand persons may be so reformed, to their own and the whole kingdoms present and future wealth and glory, that there may no more be a beggar bred up in the nation : humbly offered to the consideration of the great wisdom of the nation, and presented to the Honourable House of Commons / by R. Haines ; to which is added a model of government for such works houses prepared by the same author, and printed in the year (79) ; intended to have been presented to the last Parliament, pursuant to a breviate of proposals for the promoting of industry, and speedy restoring the woollen manufactory, by him formerly published.


ENGLAND'S Weal & Prosperity PROPOSED: OR, REASONS For Erecting Publick UUork-Houses In every COƲNTY, For the speedy promoting of Industry and the Woollen Manu∣factory, shewing how the Wealth of the Nation may be en∣creased, many Hundred thousand pounds per Annum. And also that many Thousand persons may be so Reformed, to their own and the whole Kingdoms present and future Wealth and Glory, that there may no more be a Begger bred up in the Nation.
Humbly offered to the Consideration of the Great Wisdom of the Nation, and presented to the Honourable HOUSE of COMMONS.
By R. HAINES.
To which is added A Model of Government for such Works Houses prepared by the same Author, and Printed in the year (79) intended to have been presented to the last Parliament.
Pursuant to a Breviate of Proposals for the promoting of Indu∣stry, and speedy restoring the Woollen Manufactory, by him formerly published.
London, Printed for Langley Curtis, in Goat Court on Ludgate-hill. 1681.
To the Right Honourable Sir PATIENCE WARD, Knt. Lord MAYOR of LONDON.My Lord,THough the ensuing Reasons, by the Nature of the Thing, are addressed to the Honourable House of Commons, whereof you are so valuable a Member; It being that Great Council, whose Ʋnited Votes can alone promote with Effect, what is herein humbly offered. Yet, my Lord, by rea∣son this Work is of very great Import, and (as in all such Cases) re∣quires the more time to demonstrate the Value, Ʋsefulness, Neces∣sity and Feaseableness thereof, or otherwise is apt to be neglected or thrown by; Therefore I have taken the boldness to Dedicate the same in particular to your Honour, as a most proper Advocate and Patron, humbly intreating, that as you are a known Publick Spi∣rited Promoter and Encourager of all things tending to the Weal, Safety and Prosperity of the King and Kingdom, so your Honour would be pleased to recommend these Reasons and the Matter Pro∣posed, to that Honourable House, and to improve your Interest to have the same read before them, If after your Perusal, your Honour shall find them worthy of such your Countenance