The lives, actions, and execution of the prime actors, and principall contrivers of that horrid murder of our late pious and sacred soveraigne, King Charles the First ... with severall remarkable passages in the lives of others, their assistants, who died before they could be brought to justice / by George Bate, an observer of those transactions.


 [illustration] Harrison. [illustration] I. Caren. [illustration] •. Cooke. [illustration] •. Peters. [illustration] T. Scott. [illustration] •. Cl•m•nt. [illustration] O. Cromwell. [illustration] Ad. Scroope. [illustration] 〈…〉 [illustration] 〈…〉 [illustration] 〈…〉
〈1 page duplicate〉THE LIVES, ACTIONS, AND EXECUTION OF The prime Actors, and princi∣pall Contrivers of that horrid Murder of our late pious and Sacred Soveraigne King CHARLES the first, of Ever blessed memory.
WITH Severall Remarkable Passages in the Lives of others, their Assistants, who died before they could be brought to Justice.
By GEORGE BATE, an observer of those Transactions.
LONDON, Printed for Tho. Vere, at the signe of the Angell without Newgate, 1661.
To the Right Honou∣rable James Lord Mar∣quess of Ormond, Earl of Brecknock, Lord High Stew∣ard of his Majesties Houshold, Knight of the most Noble Order of the Garter, and one of his Majesties most Honourable Privy Councel, &c.Right Honourable,I Hope your Lordship will be pleased to pardon the Authors presumption in his humble Dedication to your Lord∣ship, of this small De∣scription of the prime
 Authors and Contri∣vers of the most Horrid Murther that ever was committed in the Face of the Sun; For such I am sure your Lordship did alwaies account that of our late Soveraign, and such likewise was it look't upon by all Truly and Pi∣ously Ingenious in the whole World.
Farre be it from me to have the least thought, that my mean Pen should draw
 a Lively Representation of his late Majesties (both) naturall and acquired ver∣tues shining with so much splendor through the Darke and thick Clouds of his Af∣flictions; yet to the end the world might see the Black∣nesse of the Designes of these Miserable Men, who so wickedly persecuted our Soveraign like a Partridge upon the top of the Mountaines. I have at the close hereof attempted some∣thing
 that might make them appear the more Wicked, by how much they Murthered so Pious, so Incomparable a Prince.
My LORD, You had your share of the miseries in those times, and your Life was hunted after by these Blood-Hounds. The re∣markable passages of whose Lives and Deaths are here presented to your Lordships View; this being but as an Essay to what hereafter shall
 be set forth in a greater Vo∣lume.
And now may your Lordship Live to see Peace Flourish all your time, and may your Children inherit •he Blessing thereof, as well as your outward substance; May your Lordships Loy∣alty (which cannot be ex∣ceeded) be Copied out by them; and may the reward of your Fidelity and Con∣stancy be an immortall Crown when God shall
 take you to his owne King¦dome, is the