A treatise of Antichrist. Conteyning the defence of Cardinall Bellarmines arguments, which inuincibly demonstrate, that the pope is not Antichrist. Against M. George Downam D. of Diuinity, who impugneth the same. By Michael Christopherson priest. The first part.


A TREATISE OF ANTICHRIST.
CONTEYNING The defence of Cardinall Bellarmines Ar∣guments, which inuincibly demonstrate, That the Pope is not Antichrist.
AGAINST M. GEORGE DOWNAM D. of Diuinity, who impugneth the same.
By Michael Christopherson Priest.
THE FIRST PART.
Si Patrem familias Beelzebub vocauerunt: quantò magis domesticos eius?
Matth. 10.If they haue called the Goodman of the house Beelzebub: how much more them of his houshould?
Imprinted with Licence, M.DC.XIII.
TO THE KINGS MOST EXCELLENT MAIESTY.MOST MIGHTY PRINCE,I HOPE it will not be deemed any presumption, but rather a iust and necessary pre∣uention, for me to offer this my Treatise con∣cerning Antichrist to your Soueraigne Maiesty. Sure I am that it procedeth from a loyall and dutifull mynd desirous to auoid all occasion of offence, and ready to imploy my best la∣bours, yea my life it selfe in your Maiestyes seruice. My aduersary likewise hath prouo∣ked
 me hereunto who togeather with M. D. 〈…〉 Powell haue taken the same course with their disputations of the same subiect.
And though they may seeme to haue the better hand, by reason of your Maiestyes edu∣cation, and present profession: yet I want not reasons of encouragement, wherby I may be induced to hope and expect your Maiesties fa∣uourable patronage and protection. At least your Maiesty giueth all men good leaue, to dispute of this Controuersy, by accounting the Protestants proofs but bare coniectures: yea promising to yield to the Truth, when it shalbe manifested by more forcible Argu∣ments, and more probable Interpretations; which we haue good cause of hope to see shortly performed, by the labours of so ma∣ny learned men of forraine Nations, who haue endeauored to giue your Maiesty satisfa∣ction in this kynd. In the meane space, we cannot but highly extoll this rare modesty in so great a Monarch; especially when we heare M. Powell, and other such vnlearned Vpstarts protesting with full mouth, that they know as certainly, that the Pope is the greatAntichrist, as that God is in Heauen, and Iesus Christour Sauiour, and Redeemer.
Certainely, it is strange, how any man could fall into a fit of such extreme, and im∣pudent madnes, were it not that God permit∣teth sometymes such excesse of malicious fol∣ly, for the reclayming of others misled and seduced by these erring guids and false Pro∣phets. In which respect I haue alway thought this Question very profitable, and of great importance, to omit how necessary the dis∣cussion thereof may proue sooner then we are aware, in regard of the true, and great Antichrist himselfe; whose comming we haue far more reason to expect in our dayes, then the Ancient Fathers had in theirs.
Thus the diuine Goodnesse alway tur∣neth euill into goo