Of the shortness of time by Francis Fuller ...


OF THE Shortness OF TIME.
By Francis Fuller, M. A.
LONDON: Printed for Tho. Parkhurst at the Bible and Three Crowns in Cheapside near Mercers-Chapel. And John Barns at the Crown in Pall-Mall, 1700.
To the Inhabitants of Hackney, that were under the Ministry of the Reverend Dr. Bates there.SOlomon tells us, that because to every Purpose there is required Time and Judgment (viz. a proper season, and a special manner of acting, upon the due Observa∣tion of which, the success of every good Action depends) therefore the Misery of Man is great upon him. This Misery is not in having a sea∣son, but in his not observing it; and becomes greater, then if he had never had one.
The Time and Seasons that you have had are well known to others, but I hope better known to your Selves. You may easily remember the Times when that Reverend Person (now with God) and you kept Holy Day together: How delightful was it to you, to sit under the Shadow of those Mi∣nistrations? How pleasant the Fruit, how sweet to your Taste the delicate Provisions prepared there? But how bitter the remembrance that they are past and gone, and how much more bitter should the remembrance be if not improved by you? How sad will it be, if under those influences and
 Dews from on high no better then withered Fruit should be found under the green Leaves of your Profession? And how miserable will you be, if you that have been so long fed with the Fatnesses of God's House, should be found with Leanness in your Souls.
It was the great Character of the Children of Issachar (above all other Tribes) that they had understanding of the Times, and of the Duties of those Times. But how few of that Tribe are left upon the Earth, it is almost either wholly wore out, or but a few left.
Now that you may be found in the number of those few, such as have (with the Wiseman) Hearts to discern both Time and Judgment, to know your Day, and the Work of your Day, your season and the proper business of it; so wise as to know it, and so faithful as to do it, is the design of Publishing this Sermon, and the sin∣cere Desire of
Your Servant in our Lord, F. Fuller.OF THE SHORTNESS OF TIME.I COR. VII. ix.The Time is short.THE Words are the Apo∣stles Argument to the Co∣rinthians, and in them to us, to perswade to a mo∣derate Love to, and Use of the Things of the World, from their and our short Continuance here; they will not continue long, nor we to en∣joy
 them: And therefore should not be inordinate in our Love to them.
The Time is short.(1.) The Time of the Duration of the World, and of the Things of the World is short; so some read it.
(1.) Of the World.
If the Time was short in the Apostles Days, viz. That Time which God spread over all things like a Sail, and had been some Thousands of Years roling up, was then rol'd to the last Corner, and almost ended, it is now grown shorter by ma∣ny hundred Years, and  if the last Time (viz. the last Age of the World) was come then,