A declaration of the Lords and Commons assembled in Parliament: concerning the reducing of the late revolted ships to the obedience of Parliament. Die veneris 14 Julii. 1648. Ordered by the Lords and Commons in Parliament assembled, that this declaration be forthwith printed and published. Joh. Brown, Cler. Parliamentorum.


A DECLARATION OF THE LORDS and COMMONS Assembled in PARLIAMENT: Concerning the reducing of the late Revolted Ships To the obedience of PARLIAMENT.
Die Veneris 14 Julii. 1648.ORdered by the Lords and Commons in Parliament assembled, that this Declaration be forthwith printed and published.
Joh. Brown, Cler. Parliamentorum.Imprinted at London for John Wright, at the Kings Head in the Old Bailey. 1648.
Die Veneris, 14 Julii, 1648.IT cannot be unknowne to all men that the Commerce and Navigation of this Kingdom hath been by the blessing of God an especiall meanes of the honour and greatnesse of the English Nation, and that the courage, industry, and fidelity of the English Sea∣men and Marriners hath been a princi∣pall meanes of the increase of the Trade and Commerce of this Kingdome in all the parts of the world; the consideration whereof have caused both Houses of Par∣liament to have an especiall care unto the Royall Navie, by building many Ships and Frigats, and setting forth and main∣taining
Fleets, expending in that service the whole revenue of the Customes, (the greatest part whereof in former times was diverted unto other uses) besides other vast summes of Money laid out in that action.
And for the better incouragement of such Marriners as were imployed in the servier of the State, they have much ad∣vanced their pay above that which it was formerly, and at the comming in of the Fleets have so carefully provided for them, that they were never discharged from on Board out of Victualls and wa∣ges, untill their Moneys were duly paid them, hoping that by these and many o∣ther incouragements upon all occasions they would have approved themselves faithfull to the Kingdome in the discharge of the trust reposed in them; but contrary hereunto, the Mariners of severall of the Royall ships set forth in this last Summers Fleet, being by the cunning insinuation of men ill affected to the Peace of this
Kingdome seduced, have rreacherously revolted from their duty, and doe still per∣sist in their disobedience, by which hor∣rid and detestable act in breach of their trust, they have much blemished the ho∣nour and credit of the Navigation, and Mariners of this Kingdome, and as much as in them lies, betrayed the publique in∣terest and liberties thereof, and retarded those ends of a happy Peace, which the Parliament have ever pursued, and now are more especially imployed in; and al∣though both Houses of Parliament have (after an Act of Indempnity already of∣fered) good reason for to proceed in the reducing of them by force, yet to the end it may appeare that the Parliament doe as much as in them lies, seeke to prevent the effusion of blood, The