The declaration of the Lords spiritual and temporal in and about the cities of London and Westminister assembled at Guild-hal 11 Dec. 1688


THE DECLARATION OF THE LORDS Spiritu•l and Temporal, In and about the CITIES of LONDON and WEST〈7 letters〉〈◊〉 Assembled at GƲILDHAL,11 Dec. 1688.WEE doubt not but the World believes that this Great and Dangerous Conjuncture, We are heartily and zealously concerned for the Protestant Religion, the Laws of the Land, and the Liberties and Pro∣perties of the Subject. And We did reasonably hope, that the King having Issued His Proclamation• and Writs for a Free Parliament, We might have rested Secure under the Expectation of that Meeting But His Majesty having withdrawn Himself and as We apprehend, in order to His Departure out this Kingdom, by the Pernicious Counsels 〈◊〉 Persons ill Affected to Our Notion and Religion▪ We 〈◊〉 not, without being wanting to Our Duty be silent under 〈…〉se, 〈◊〉 wherein the 〈…〉 prevailed, have miserably involved these Realms. We do ••••efore Una••mou••• resolve to •pply Our〈…〉 to his High∣ness the Prince of Orange, who with so great Kindness to these Kingdoms, so vast Expence and so the 〈…〉 own Person, hath Undertaken, by endeavouring to Procure a Free Parliament, to rescue Us, with as little 〈…〉 possible, of Christian Blood from the imminent Dangers of Popery and Slavery.
And We do hereby Declare, That We will, with our utmost Endeavours, assist his Highness in the obtaining such a Parliament with all speed, wherein Our Laws, Our Liberties and Properties may be Secured, the Church of England in particular, with a due Liberty to Protestant Dissenters, and in general the Protestant Religion and Interest over the whole World may be Supported and Encouraged, to the Glory of God, the Happiness of the Established Government in these Kingdoms, and the Advantage of all Princes and Sta••s in Christendom, that may be herein concerned.
In the mean time, We will Endeavour to Preserve, as much as in Us lies, the Peace and Security of these great and po∣pulous Cities of London and Westminster, and the Parts Adjacent, by taking Care to Disarm all Papists, and Secure all Jesuites and Romish Priests, who are in or about the same.
And if there be any thing more to be performed by Us, for promoting his Highness's Generous Intentions for the Pu∣blick Good, We shall be ready to do it as occasion shall require.
W. Cant.Tho. Ebor.PembrokeDorset.Mulgrave.Thanet.Carlisle.Craven.Ailesbury.Burlington.Sussex.Berkeley.Rochester.Newport.Weymouth.P. Winchester.W. Asaph.Fran. Ely.Tho. Roffen.Tho. Petriburg.P. Wharton.North and Grey.Chandos.Montague.T. Jermyn.Vaughan Carbery.Culpeper.Crewe.Osulston.WHereas His Majesty hath privatly this Morning withdrawn Himself, We the Lords Spiritual and Temporal, whose Names are Subscribed, being assembled at Guildhal in London▪ having agr••d upon and Signed Declaration, In∣tituled, The Declaration of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal, in and about the Cities of London and Westmi