The light appearing more and more towards the perfect day. Or, a farther discovery of the present state of the Indians in New-England, concerning the progresse of the Gospel amongst them. Manifested by letters from such as preacht to them there. / Published by Henry Whitfeld, late pastor to the Chuch [sic] of Christ at Gilford in New-England, who came late thence.


THe Lord, who is wonderful in Councel, and
excellent in working, hath so wrought, that
the scorching of some of his people with
the Sun of persecution, hath been the en∣lightning
of those who were not his people, with the
Sun of righteousnesse. This present Narrative gives
testimony, That our dear Brethren who with-draw
from the heat of trouble in Old England, have been
used as Instruments in the Lords hand to draw som
(I might say many) of the poor Heathens to be∣hold
and rejoyce in the light of the everlasting
Gospel in New-England. Surely 'tis cause of great∣er
glorying that any of those Heathens have found
the way of life and salvation among our brethren,
then that our brethren have found place and safe∣ty
(yea, then though they should finde the richest
merchandize of gold and silver) among those
Heathens. And how much doth it become Chri∣stians
to let Heathens see that they seek them more
then theirs; That the gaining of them to Christ is
more in their eye, then any worldly gain.
Joseph Caryl.The Light appearing more and more to∣wards
the perfect Day.
OR,
A farther Discovery of the present state
of the INDIANS
IN
New-England,
Concerning the Progresse of the Gospel
amongst them. Manifested by Letters from such as preacht
to them there.
Published by Henry Whitfeld, late Pastor to the
Chuch of Christ at Gilford in New-England, who
came late thence.
Zeph. 2. 11.The Lord will famish all the gods of the earth, and men
shall worship him, every one from his place, even all the Iles of the
Heathen.
London, Printed by T. R. & E. M. for John Bartlet, and are to be
sold at the Gilt Cup, neer St. Austins gate in Pauls
Church-yard. 1651.
To the Right Honorable
THE
PARLIAMENT
OF
England
And the
COUNCEL of STATE.Right Honorable,HOw abundantly the Lord hath enlarged
the hearts, and raised the resolutions of
this present Parliament to serve him, the
many good things, and great things done
by you, sufficiently witnesse, and will be acknowledged,
at least in another generation. It is not the smallest in
the eyes of those that look up to God for you, both in Old
England and New, that you have so readily contribu∣ted
your power, upon the first notice of the manifestati∣on
of Gods gracious work upon the Indians, by an Act
published by you, for promoving the same.
In order whereunto I crave leave in all humility to

represent (having lived some yeers in the Countrey,
and lately came thence) how happily the Lord carri∣eth
on his work there, which I have done in this small
Treatise following.
And for your more full satisfaction, give leave to
remove such false surmises and aspersions, suggested on
purpose