Concavum cappo-cloacorum, or, A view in little of the great wit and honesty contain'd under a brace of caps, and wrap'd up in the querpo-cloak of a phanatick in some reflections on the second part of a late pamphlet, intituled, Specvlum crapegownorum, being a dialogue between True-man and Cappocloak-man / by an honest gent. and a true lover of all such.



CONCAVUM
Cappo-Cloacorum;
OR,
A View in Little of the Great WIT and
HONESTY contain'd under a Brace of CAPS, and
wrap'd up in the Querpo-Cloak of a
PHANATICK. IN SOME
Reflections on the Second Part of a late
PAMPHLET, intituled,
SPECULUM CRAPE-GOWNORUM,
BEING
A DIALOGUE between True-man and Cappo-cloak-man.
By an Honest Gent. and a true Lover of all such.
LONDON,
Printed for Benj. Tooke, at the Ship in St. Paul's Church-yard,
MDCLXXXII.







Concavum Cappo-Cloacorum, &c.
True-man.WELL met, Neighbour, What in Querpo? I
cannot but admire how well those Caps and
that pretty Apes-cloak becomes you, upon
my Reputation, I cannot but look on you,
you'r so spruce to day.

Cappo-cloak-man.Why? what ail you to stare so? did
you never see one in such a Dress before?

True-man.No truly, not very often: For that Dress was
out of fashion (I thank God) before I was capable of ta∣king
notice of it.

Cappo-cloak-man.I should thank God that it was as much
in fashion as ever it was. For I cannot but honour the pre∣cious
remains of those glorious times, when the Saints enjoy∣ed
their Priviledges to the height; (i. e.) When they bound
their Kings in chains, and their Nobles in Fetters of Iron,
even according to the very Letter: when we kept Sabbaths
to the Lord, but no Holy-Days: and when our holy Fasts
and Prayers were always answered with the next days Feast
upon the good things of the Wicked, which the Lord was pleased
to send us, by those precious wayes and methods of his own
chusing, (as one of our Brethren did then well call them)
viz. those which the Prophane call Sequestration, Confiscati∣on,
Plundering, and Decimation.

True-man.Well, I cannot but think that a Gown and
Cassock, and a Canonical-Girdle, is a much more grave, so∣lemn,
decent, and honourable Habit for a Clergy-man.

Cappo-cloak-man.I cannot help your thoughts, but to tell

you the truth (which is not our common method) I have
not heartily loved Gowns, &c. since Dr. I. O. then Vice-chancellor
of Oxford, did so zealously and learnedly de∣clame
against them, as rags of Popery. Oh, that precious
man, whose very name is enough to sanctifie the Prophane
Title of Dean! Had you but seen with what earnestness he
paid off the Whore of Babylon, how he laid himself forth with
all his might upon her, and stript her from all her rags, you
could not but have been willing, not only to have put off
your Gown, but, your Breeches too, rather than have complied
with those Sons of that Whore, the Papists, in any Garment
that they wear. Oh, I can never forget that most precious
Speech as long as I have a day to live!

True-man.Hold, Neighbour, hold. Don't be too