A sanctuary for honest men. Or An abstract of humane wisedome. Contayning, a certaine way leading to a perfect knowledge of Man, and directing to a discreet cariage in the vvhole course of our humane condition. Collected and composed by Io: Hitchcock student in the Middle Temple.


A SANCTVARY FOR HONEST MEN.
OR An Abstract of Humane WISDOME.
Contayning, A certaine way leading to a per∣fect knowledge of MAN, and di∣recting to a discreet Cariage in the whole course of our Humane •ondition.
Collected and composed By Io: HITCHCOCK Student in the Middle Temple.
Virtus est vitium fugere, & sapientia scire
Quid verū at{que} decens, quid fas, quid & vule, quid non.
LONDON Printed by Edward Griffin for Thomas Nort•n at the signe of the Kings head in Paules Churchyard. 1617.
TO THE right Honourable WILLIAM Earle of PEMBROKE, Lord HERBERT of Cardiffe, Marmion, and S. Quintin, Lord CHAMBERLAINE to his MAIESTIE, Knight of the most Noble Order of the GARTER, one of his Maie∣sties most Honorable Priuy COVNCELL.TWo things (right Hono∣rable) are vsually the Apologicall subiects
 of most dedications, the worthinesse of the Patron, and the selfe-distrusting insuf∣ficiency of the Wri∣ter; the one concer∣neth mee, the other your HONORABLE SELFE, whom each generous Spirit hath so iustly made the aemulated patterne of true Nobility and Virtue that I could not easily containe my selfe, but was in∣wardly constrayned with an affectionate desire to dedicate this small mite of my
 poore endeauours, this handfull of Morali∣ty vnto you, though no desert in my selfe can euer bee worthy inough to make mee knowne to your HO∣NOUR, nor any thing so well handled in this concise volume, but may either bee con∣trouled by your riper iudgment, or else be corrected by the inte∣grity of your life: yet (assuring my selfe that your generous and truly ennobled minde will willingly enter∣taine whatsoeuer is
 well intended) I pre∣sume to shelter this little compendious Tract vnder your Ho∣nourable patronage, sic non Zoilum metuo, non inuidiam.
Your Honours in all sincerity of duty most humbly affectionate, Io: Hitchcock.To the READER.IT was not my purpose (captious or indifferent Reader) to send this lit∣tle Antidote into the hun∣gry iawes of the world which was prepared onely for my owne dyet, but the preuayling importunitie of freinds (which commonly serueth others for excuse) was to me a necessity: ther∣fore since this dish is now come to be serued to thy Table, and so to be cen∣sur'd by thy well or ill di∣stinguishing pallate (I meane thy rash or sounder iudge∣ment) let me aduise thee, if thou mean'st to be nouri∣shed by it, first to ruminate
 and chew it well, and after∣wards to concoct it through∣ly before thou reiect it as an excrement; and then if any thing herein relish thee feede heartily, and welcom; but if this distaste thee, either leaue it friendly, or dish out thy owne. Car∣pere vel noli nostra, vel ede tua.
The Abstract OF Humane Wisdome.The first part of this Booke teaching