The church-membership of children, and their right to baptisme, according to that holy and everlasting covenant of God, established between himself, and the faithfull and their seed after them, in their generations: cleared up in a letter, sent unto a worthy friend of the author, and many yeares agoe written touching that subject; / by Thomas Shepard, sometimes Pastor of the Church of Christ at Cambridg in New-England. ; Published at the earnest request of many: for the consolidation and encouragemenr [sic], both of parents and children in the Lord. ; [Twelve lines of Scripture texts]


THE CHURCH MEMBERSHIP OF CHILDREN, AND THEIR RIGHT TO BAPTISME
According to that holy and everlasting COVENANT of GOD, established between Himself, and the Faithfull and their Seed after them, in their Generations: Cleared up in a Letter, sent unto a worthy Friend of the AUTHOR, and many Yeares agoe written touching that subject;
By THOMAS SHEPARD, sometimes Pastor of the Church of Christ at  Cambridg in New-England.
Published at the earnest request of many: for the Consolation and Encouragement, both of Parents and Children in the Lord.
Genesis. 17. 7.And I will establish my Covenant between Me and thee and thy seed after thee in their Generations, for an everlasting Covenant, to be a GOD unto thee, and to thy seed after thee.Mark 16. 16.He that Believeth, and is Baptized, shall be saved.Acts. 2. 39.For the Promise is unto you, and to your Children, and to all that are 〈◊◊〉 even as many as the Lord our God shall call.1 Cor.7. 14.Else were your Children unclean, but now are they Holy.CAMBRIDG Printed by Samuel Green. 1663.
CHEMNIT•US, that eminent light in the Church of God in those elaborate workes of his against the Papists (Exam▪ part 2. can 14. de Baptisme) hath this memorable saying viz..
IT is not to be left free, to the choice of those who have been Baptized 〈◊〉 In|fancy, when they come to be Adult, whether or no they will have 〈…〉 con|firmed, which was done in their Baptisme; as though the Covenant of grace, & Testament of pea•, which is offered and sealed up to little Chil|dren in Baptisme, should the• first begin to be established, when the 〈◊〉 of their will, when Adult, is added thereunto: for from 〈◊〉 is wick a ••••|tion, the Anabaptists imply have taken away, and Condemned Paedobap|tisme; but such Baptized little ones are to be admonished as they 〈…〉 what a Covenant of Grace, and Testament of peace it is, which 〈…〉 entred into with them in Baptisme: and by what promise of grat•••〈…〉 have likewise obliged themselves unto Obedience to God, with there 〈…〉 of the Devil; and they are seriously to be exhorted, that they render 〈◊〉 to God for that wonderful great 〈◊〉, that they abide in that Covenant of peace, and endeavour to fullfil that obligation, by mortifying sin, and 〈◊〉 upon newness of life, and that they do this freely, and sincerely: 〈…〉 they shall, through unthankfullnes, depart from that Covenant, and ••••|ment, that then they repent, and return