A defence of the Old Testament, in a series of letters addressed to Thomas Paine, author of a book entitled, The age of reason, part the second, being an investigation of true and fabulous theology. / By David Levi, author of Letters to Dr. Priestley, in answer to his to the Jews, &c. &c. &c. ; [Two lines of Scripture texts]


A DEFENCE OF THE OLD TESTAMENT, IN A SERIES OF LETTERS, ADDRESSED TO THOMAS PAINE, Author of a Book entitled, The Age of Reason, Part the Second, being an Investigation of True and of Fabulous Theology.
BY DAVID LEVI, Author of Letters to Dr. Priestley, in Answer to his to the Jews, &c. &c. &c.
The fool hath said in his heart, there is no God.
Psalm xiv. 1.The wicked worketh a deceitful work.
Prov. xi. 18.NEW YORK: Printed by William A. Davis, 26 Moore street, For NAPHTALI JUDAH, Bookseller, No. 47, Water street. 1797.
INTRODUCTORY LETTER.SIR,IT is some months since I read your Book entitled "The Age of Reason, part second, being an investigation of true and fabulous Theology:" and do not scruple to pronounce it one of the most violent and systimatic attacks on the word of God, that ever was made; not on 'ac∣count of the novelty of the objections contained therein, for in truth there is no novelty in them, but from the acri∣mony and abuse; the illiberal satire, pretended ridicule, and impertinent wit∣ticism, so liberally scattered throughout the performance; and which, coming from the pen of a man that has acted so distinguished a part on the theatre of the political world; and whose writings have been read with avidity in almost all parts of Europe, may perhaps, be of fatal
consequence to the faith of many: I, therefore, was determined to endeavour to apply an antidote to the venom of your poison of infidelity; (as far as my poor abilities would allow) but being then engaged in translating the Prayers of our nation, from Hebrew into En∣glish, and arranging the copy for the second volume of my Dissertations on the Prophecies of the Old Testament, I was obliged to postpone it till the pre∣sent: at the same time hoping that some one, far more capable, would have un∣dertaken the laudable task, and thus have rendered my interference unnecessa∣ry. But, although several answers have been written, by men of great abilities, yet, I humbly presume to think, that there is still much to be said on the sub∣ject: especially as you seem to treat Christian priests and preachers with such contempt, that it is to be supposed you pay but little attention to their arguments, as you think "that they only waste their time, and heat themselves in frac∣tious
disputes about doctrinal points drawn from the Bible." You are also pleased, in a self conceited important tone, to tell them that their answers to the first part of your Age of Reason, is as "cobwebs brushed away by accident." It therefore is to be hoped that these letters, written by one that is neither a Christian priest, nor a preacher; and who consequently has no interest in preaching up