An epistle of farewell to the people of God called Quakers where ever scattered or gathered in England, Ireland, Scotland, Holland, Germany, or in any other parts of Europe.


AN Epistle of Farewell To the People of God called QUAKERS, Where Ever Scattered or Gathered in Eng∣land, Ireland, Scotland, Holland, Germany, or in any other Parts of Europe.MY Dearly Beloved, and Highly Esteemed in Christ, our heavenly Head; the Living and Good Shep∣herd of the Sheep, by whom we have been found out (one of a Fa∣mily, and two of a Tribe) and made One holy Flock and Family unto Him, in this day of his Spiritual and Glorious Appearance: Grace, Mer∣cy and Peace, yea, His Peace, Which the World can neither give you, nor take from you, be plenti∣fully multiplied amongst you from day to day; that a holy, harmless, and faithful People you may be, yielding to the Lord the Fruits of his

Goodness, by a Circumspect and Self-denying Conver∣sation to the End.
And now, my dear Friends, whom I Know and Love, and you also whom I truly love, tho' I do Not Know Personally, nor may be so known of some of you, since it has pleased the Good and All-wise God to order my Course from you, so that I cannot visit you; as I have often desired, before I left you: This therefore is to be my Bro∣therly Farewell unto you. And surely my Soul is Bowed in Humble Petitions to Israel's God, The True, and Living, and Powerful God, that it may be well with you all, here and for ever. And, my Dear Brethren, this is certain, if you Do well, you shall certainly Fare well, and in the End of all your Trials, Troubles, and Temptations, it shall be said unto you, Well Done, Good and Faithful Servants, Enter ye into the Joy of the Lord. O it is that which crowns the work. Not Saying but Doing, we must not only Begin, but End well; and hold out to the End. Not of those who are weary of Well-doing, but who follow the Lord fully, as Caleb and Joshua did in old time, and are Famed for it. So that tho' God has Appeared to us, and Given us many and undeniable Testimonies that it was He, and not Another, who Reached our Hearts, and Touched our Consciences, and brought us to Con∣fession, yea, and Forsaking too, of that which offend∣ed

Him, in great measure, Blessed be his Name, yet we are not to stop, or take up our Rest here: We must Watch still, Pray still, Fight still, that good Fight of Faith, till we have overcome the Enemy of our Souls: And even then must we Watch and Pray, and that to the End of our Days; that we may not lose that Crown of Glory, which God the Righteous Judge, shall give to all those that love his Appearance, overcome, and persevere to the End: For be assured we shall reap if we faint not: But we shall faint if we wait not upon God, who alone is the Strength of his People.
This, My Dear Friends, is that which lies with greatest stress upon my Spirit; Watch to your Dayly Preservation, and be not satisfied unless you feel it. Sufficient is the Day for the Evil thereof, say'd our Blesse