The doctrine of faith. Or, The prime and principall points which a Christian is to know and believe. Handled in sundry sermons upon texts of scripture selected and chosen for the purpose. Wherein the method of the creed, (commonly called the Apostles Creed) is observed; and the articles thereof are confirmed, explained and applied, for the instructing of the ignorant, and the establishing of all in the truth. / By Christopher Cartwright, Minister of the Word at York.


THE DOCTRINE OF FAITH.
OR, The prime and principall Points which a Christian is to know and believe.
Handled in sundry SERMONS upon Texts of Scripture selected and chosen for the purpose.
Wherein the Method of the CREED, (Commonly called The Apostles Creed) is observed; and the Articles thereof are confirmed, explained and applied, for the instructing of the ignorant, and the establishing of all in the TRUTH.
BY CHRISTOPHER CARTWRIGHT, Minister of the Word at York.
LONDON, Printed by R. A. for RICHARD LOVVNDES at the Unicorn on Lud-gate Hill over against Bell-Savage. 1649.
To the Christian Reader.WHat hereticall, blasphemous and damna∣ble opinions have of late years been vented and published amongst us in this Land, is over-notorious, and but too well knowne both at home and abroad: For both the reformed  Churches in forraigne parts have complained of it, and also we our selves by publike order and appointment have professed  solemne humiliation for it: ▪Surely it is a very sad thing and much to be deplored, that Protestants who have abandoned communion with the Romish Babylon, because of those impious and Antichristian Doctrines, that are maintained in it, should fall themselves to imbrace opinions no lesse erroneous, yea, indeed more monstrous then those of the Papists, Yea, and that a Nation should even then be most grossely infected in this kind, when it hath but newly in a most sacred manner promised and pro∣fessed Reformation: Divers years ago when things were nothing so bad in this respect, as since they have been, the Walachrian Churches in an Epistle sent to the Assembly of Divines at Westminster, set forth the hainousnesse of the crime that we are guilty of: and have not we great reason now to be sensible of it, and affected with it? Let your consciences judge (say they) how all kind of heresies can passe un∣punished,manifold seeds of Schismes be sowne, and prophane Doctrines of errors be commonly vented abroad in that City (yea, in that Nation) which by so ex∣presse, sacred and severe an oath hath bound it selfe before God to cast out all errors, heresies and schisms from the house of God. The consideration of the growth and spreading of such pernicious errors, moved me in the course of my Ministery to spend some time in handling the first principles of the Oracles of God, (as they are called, Heb. 5. 12.) the prin∣cipall and fundamentall points of Religion, according to the method and order of the Creed, called the Apostles Creed, wherein they are comprized. This I conc