Christianity abused by the Church of Rome, and popery shewed to be a corruption of it being an answer to a late printed paper given about by papists : in a letter to a gentleman / by J.W.


Christianity ABUSED BY THE CHURCH OF ROME, AND Popery shewed to be a Corruption of it: BEING An Answer to a late Printed Paper given about by Papists.
In a Letter to a GENTLEMAN.
By J. W.
Revel. 2. 5.Remember from whence thou art fallen, and repent, and do the first works, or else I will come unto thee quickly, and will re∣move thy Candlestick out of his place, except thou repent.
LONDON, Printed for Walter Kettilby, at the Bishops Head in S. Paul's Church-yard. 1679.
THE POPISH PAPER.IT will not be denied but that the Church of Rome was once a most pure, excellent, flourishing and Mother  Church.
This Church could not cease to be such, but she must fall either by Apostasie, Heresie, or Schism.
1. Apostasie is not only a renouncing of the Faith of Christ, but the very Name and Title to Christianity: No man will say, that the Church of Rome had ever such a fall, or fell thus.
2. Heresie is an adhesion to some private and singular Opinion, or Errour in Faith, contrary to the general ap∣proved Doctrine of the Church.
If the Church of Rome did ever adhere to any singular, or new Opinion disagreeable to the common received Doctrine of the Christian World, I pray satisfie me as to these Particulars, viz.
1. By what General Council was she ever condemned?
2. Which of the Fathers ever writ against her? Or,
3. By what Authority was she otherwise reproved? For, It seems to me a thing very incongruous, that so great a Church should be condemned by every one that hath a mind to condemn her.
3. Schism is a departure or division from the Unity of the Church, whereby the Band and Communion held with some former Church, is broken and dissolved.
If ever the Church of Rome divided her self by Schism from any other Body of faithful Christians, or brake Com∣munion, or went forth from the Society of any elder Church: I pray satisfie me as to these particulars.
1. Whose company did she leave?
2. From what Body did she go forth?
3. Where was the true Church which she forsook?
For it appears a little strange to me, that a Church should be accounted Schismatical, when there cannot be assigned any other Church different from her, (which from Age to Age, since Christ his time, hath continued visible) from whence she departed.
To my honoured Friend Mr. S. B.SIR,I had no sooner perused the Paper which I re∣ceived from you, but I perceived that it was penn'd for the sake of such, as either are not well acquainted with the matters in Contro∣versie betwixt us and the Church of Rome, or with the Way and Method of arguing. To such as these they are wont to pretend high: To those that are ignorant of the former, they talk of Antiquity and Universallity; and to such as are unskilful in the latter, of Demonstrations, and self-evident Prin∣ciples, of Axioms and Definitions. But all this is a meer