English-law, or, A summary survey of the houshold of God on earth and that both before and under the law, and that both of Moses and the Lord Jesus : historically opening the purity and apostacy of believers in the successions of ages, to this present : together with an essay of Christian government under the regiment of our Lord and King, the one immortal, invisible, infinite, eternal, universal prince, the Prince of Peace, Emmanuel.


English-Law: OR, A Summary Survey of the Houshold of God on Earth; And that both before and under the Law; And that both of Moses and the Lord Jesus. Historically opening the Purity and Apostacy of Believers in the Successions of Ages, to this present.
Together with an Essay of Christian Government Under the Regiment of our Lord and King, the one Immortal, Invisible, Infinite, Eternal, Universal Prince, the Prince of Peace, Emmanuel.
Isaiah 1. 24, 25, 26, 27, 28.Ah I will ease me of my enemies, and avenge me of mine Adversaries: I will turn my hand upon thee, and purge thy dross, and take away thy Tinne.
And I will restore thy Judges as at the first, and thy Councellors as at the beginning; afterwards thou shalt be called the City of Righteousness, the faithful City.
Zion shall be redeemed with Judgement, they that return of her with Righteousness.
The destruction of the Transgressors and of the sinners shall be together, and they that for∣sake the Lord shall be consumed.
Isai. 2. 3. and 5.Come ye, let us go up to the Mountain of the Lord, &c.
and 5.Come, let us walk in the light of the Lord.
 [illustration]  [device showing a ship at sea, with anchor above and anchor below] Only by faith•. G. sculp:
London, Printed by Robert White for T. G. and Francis Tyton, and are to be sold at the Three Daggers neer the Inner-Temple-Gate. 1651.
To the Family of God over the whole Earth; but more especially to them of the Houshold of Faith in the Commonwealth of England.ALL who hold the Christian Faith, do beleeve that as the world had a beginning, and was a created sub∣stance; so it shall perish and come to an end (or be changed;) we seem not only to be on the last foot of time in this our Generation, but having stood 1650. years upon it, we have many thoughts of heart-long∣ings for the glorious appearing of the Son of God; Many expect him visibly to raign here on Earth in person, and that he shall be glorified even where he was crucified: Others look for a King∣dome of Righteousness, a wonderful light of Truth to be manifested, glorious out-breaking glympses and appearances of the infinite wisdom, the brightness and evidence of which shall scatter all those clouds, and dispell all those Exhalations which have mis-led us in the walkings of Christianity, the false Prophets, Clouds without rain, and Fires without heat, which have appeared amongst us: A people in this Nation hath had as great testimonies of this as any people extant on the Earth. The Power of the Almighty hath visibly appeared here these many years, scattering o