A merrie and pleasant comedy: never before printed, called A shoo-maker a gentleman As it hath beene sundry times acted at the Red Bull and other theaters, with a generall and good applause. Written by W.R. Gentleman.


A MERRIE AND Pleasant Comedy: Never before Printed, called A Shoo-maker a Gentleman.
As it hath beene sundry Times Acted at the Red Bull and other Theaters, with a generall and good Applause.
Written by W. R. Gentleman.
LONDON: Printed by I. Okes, and are to be sold by Iohn Cowper, at his Shop at the East-end of St. Pauls Church at the Signe of the Holy Lambe. 1638.
The Printer to the honest and High-spirited Gentlemen of the never decaying Art, called the Gentle Craft.NOne but to you (as whom of right it doth concerne) I thought good to present this Play: which though written many yeares since, ought not therefore to be slighted: I confesse we have better for Language in these our exquisite and refined Times, yet for the mat∣ter and Subject, none of a more de∣lightfull and pleasant Style; for it is well knowne to you (Gentlemen

Cordwiners) that every yeare you doe celebrate the Feast of Crispine, & Crispianus, not in a meane and ordi∣nary way, but with a great deale of Ceremony, keeping it as an Holy∣day, feasting and entertaining your friends and neighbours. And like∣wise it hath bin so well approoved by you in the acting of it upon the Stage, and that with your loud alarums, (I meane your clapping of hands) that I could not chuse but commend it to you now in Print: for it is a Play that is often Acted; and when others fade and are out of date, yet this doth endure tò the Last: I know it may come short of that accuratenes both in plot and style that this witty age doth with greater curiosity acquire,

I may thus excuse; that as Plaies were then, some twenty yeares agone, it was in the fashion. Nor could it have found a fitter or more seasonable pub∣lication than at this time; when the glory of our Nation is so much admi∣red, and the valour of our English so much esteemd, that it is sought for by forraigne Natives, as you may read• in this Subject we have in hand; but I leave it to your perusall and imitati∣on; and returne to you my brave spi∣rited Gentlemen Shoo-makers, upon whom, & for whose sakes I have publi∣shed it; wishing you all that have their courages and forwardnes, their noble Fates and Fortunes: So hoping you will goe through stich, I leave thee to Fare well.
The Actors Names.A•lured, King of Brittaine.Elred and Offa this Kings two sounes, borrowing the Names of Crispine and Cris∣pianus.Sir Hugh, a Prince of Wales, and a Sutor to Winifred.Amphiabel, a Nobleman.Maximinus and Dioclesian, the Emperours of Rome.Nobleman and Warriers.Bassianus,Lutius,Rutullus,Roderick, King of Vandals.Hul•••ke, King of Goths, Ene∣mies to the Emperour.A Nuntius from the Emperor Dioclesian.A Roman Captaine.Souldiers and other Atten∣dants.Three Countrey-men.A Shoomaker.Barnaby and Raph his Journy∣men.A Queene, Wife to King Al∣lured, and Mot