Religion recommended to the soldier. A sermon preach'd to the Ancient and Honourable Artillery-Company, June 4. 1744. Being the day of their election of officers. / By Joseph Parsons, A.M. Pastor of the First Church in Bradford. ; [Three lines from Hebrews]


Mr Parsons's ARTILLERY-ELECTION SERMON.
RELIGION recommended to the SOLDIER. A SERMON Preach'd to the ancient and honourable Artillery-Company, June 4. 1744. Being the Day of their Election of Officers. By Joseph Parsons, A.M. Pastor of the first Church in Bradford.
Heb. xi.32, 33.— The Time would fail me to tell of Gedeon, and of Barak, and of Sampson, and of Jephthae,— Who THRO' FAITH SUBDUED KINGDOMS—.
BOSTON: Printed by B. GREEN, and Company for D. HENCHMAN and J. EDWARDS, in Cornhil. 1744.
To His EXCELLENCY William Shirley, Esq Captain General and Governour in chief, over His Majesty's Pro|vince of the Massachusetts-Bay, in NEW-ENGLAND.May it please your Excellency,_WITH the greatest Satisfaction every one beholds your supe|riour Abilities employed for the Prosperity of this People: Your great Learning not only gives Sa|tisfaction to your own Mind, and enter|tains

and instructs those who have the Honour to be your familiar Friends, but is of that kind as to be a common and extensive Good. By your consummate Wisdom you suppress a Party-Spirit in the State, and unite the Hearts of all Men to one another, and in your self. And by your unwearied Application, we see our Fortifications in a Condition to free us from perplexing Cares about the Enemy; and such speedy and vigorous Measures taken to guard our exposed Frontiers as calm our Minds under the sad Apprehen|sions we had entertained of a War, in which New-England is peculiarly inter|ested.
And permit me to say, the evident Concern you have discovered, ever since your Advancement to the Chair of Go|vernment

in this Province, to apply pro|per and seasonable Remedies to every Evil our State labours under, and make us a prosperous People, hath endeared you to all Men. Your Excellency can|not be insensible what Engagements of Affection and Esteem your Wisdom and Goodness have laid those under, who have the Honour to have them more im|mediately in View; while the great Sa|tisfaction which others, in lower and more distant Scituations, take in your happy Administration may be more unknown. Give me Leave upon this Occasion to testify the grateful Resentments which your paternal Concern for our common Good begets in their Minds.
That I may not alone appear unac|quainted with our Happiness under your

wise Administration, when I had so fa|vourable an Opportunity to speak of it, I have chosen to run the Danger of being accounted impertinent, in presenting to your Excellency the following very im|perfect Discourse.
That this Province may long enjoy the happy Fruits of your Goodness and Great|ness from the Chair of Government, and your Excellency much of the divine Pre|sence in your Administration, and here|after a distinguishing Reward in the e|ve