The religious villain a sermon preached before the Right Honourable Sr. Robert Clayton, Kt., lord mayor of London, and the Court of Aldermen, upon the fifth day of November, 1679, being the anniversary day of thanksgiving for the deliverance of our church and nation from the hellish powder-treason, at St. Mary le Bow Church in London / by Francis Gregory ...


THE Religious Villain. A SERMON Preached before the Right Honourable Sr. ROBERT CLAYTON, Kt. LORD MAYOR OF LONDON AND THE Court of Aldermen. Upon the Fifth day of November, 1679. being the Anniversary day of Thanksgiving for the Deli∣verance of our Church and Nation from the Hellish Powder-Treason, At St. Mary le Bow Church, in London.
By FRANCIS GREGORY, D. D. And Rector of Hambleton in the County of Bucks, and late one of his Majesties Chaplaines in Ordinary.
LONDON, Printed for Sam. Lee and Dan. Major, in Lumbard-street against the Post-House, and at the Hand and Scepter in Fleet-street▪ 1679.
TO THE RIGHT HONOURABLE Sr. ROBERT CLAYTON Kt. And Lord Mayor of the City of London.My Lord,THis discourse, which was first designed for the on∣ly use of that little Village, wherein the Provi∣dence of God hath placed me, as Rector; and your Lordship, as Patron; hath lately had the Priviledge, through your Honours favour and Order, to be de∣livered in a City-Church, though with some disadvan∣tageous Circumstances.
For that Church being spacious, the occasion So∣lemn, and the Assembly not only very numerous, but much disturbed too, the inarticulate noise of many, through Catarrhes and Coughs, drowning the Voice of one; the Preacher had the fate rather to be seen than heard; and it so fell out, that the greater the Congregation was, the Auditory proved so much the less.
Such, as had the luck to hear some part of this Ser∣mon from the Pulpit, have importuned me to let them see the whole of it from the Press; whose requests I should never have gratified, had I not some hopes, that a subject, so seasonable for this Iuncture of time, may do some good.
And the more good will this Paper do, if your Lord∣ship

please to Shelter it under your Wing. For, such a signal, just, and deserved Veneration hath this whole Royal City for your Honour, that every man, who is wise and good, will easily entertain whatever shall be recommended to them by your Lordships Counsel, Ex∣ample, or Approbation.
And since, not only the Citizens of London, but the whole Nation is highly satisfied, that in the Govern∣ment of this great Metropolis, your Lordship doth as little design, as need, the Advancement of your pri∣vate Interest; but, the security of our Religion, the Honour and safety of our Soveraign, the Establish∣ment of our Church, the restitution of Peace and Unity, and the prevention of Popish superstitions and Tyranny, I can with the greater confidence recom∣mended this discourse to your Lordships Patronage, as having in it a direct Tendency towards all those blessed Ends, which your Honour aimes at.
May our good God so