Articles to be enquired of, within the archdeaconry of Essexx, by the church-wardens & sworne-men in euery parish, and presentment to be made thereof to the Arch-deacon with partciular [sic] answeres vnto euery article.


ARTICLES ❧ To be enquired of, within the Archdeaconry of Essexx,
by the Church-wardens & Sworne∣men in euery Parish.
And presentment to be made thereof to the Arch-deacon.
With partciular Answeres vnto euery Article.
 [illustration]  [printer's or publisher's device] 
LONDON Printed by EDW: ALLDE. 1615.
The tenor of the Oath ministred to the Church-Wardens and Sworne-men.YE shall sweare, that all affections, fauour, hatred, hope of reward, or gaine, or feare of displeasure or malice set aside, you shall vpon due considera∣tion of the Atticles giuen you in charge present all and euery such person, of, or within your Pa∣rish, as hath committed any offence or fault, or made any de∣fault mentioned in any of these Articles, or which are vehe∣mently suspected, or otherwise defamed of any such offence, fault or default, wherein you shall deale vprightly and accor∣ding to equitie: neither of malice presenting any contrary to Truth, nor of corrupt affection sparing to present any, and so conceale the Truth, hauing in this action God before your eyes, with an earnest zeale to maintaine truth, and to suppresse vice: So helpe you God and his faithfull promises in Christ Iesus.
¶ Articles to be enquired of within the Archdeaconarie of Essex, for this present yeere of our Lord God. 1615.Articles concerning the Church.WHether haue you in your seuerall Churches and Chappells the Booke of Constitutions or Canons Ecclesiasticall, ready to be read by your Minister, according to his Maiesties pleasure, pub∣lished by his highnes authority vnder the great Seale of England.
2 Whether is there in your Church or Chappell, one parchment regi∣ster Booke, prouided for Christnings, Marriages, and Burialls: and whe∣ther is the same duely and exactly kept, according to the Constitutions in that case prouided, and a transcript thereof brought in yearely within one moneth after Easter, into my Lord Bishops principall Registers office: and whether doth your Minister vpon euery Sunday reade the names of all such as haue béene married, christned, or buried the wéeke before?
3 Whether haue you prouided the Booke of Common Prayer lately com∣maunded by his Maiesties authority onely to be vsed, and the Booke of Ho∣milies, and two Psalters: and whether haue you in your Church or Chap∣pell a Font of stone, set vp in the antient vsuall place: a conuenient and de∣cent Communion table standing vpon a frame, with a Carpet of silke, or some other decent stuffe: and a faire Linnen cloth to lay thereon at the Com∣munion time: and whether is the same then placed in such conuenient sort within the Chancell or Church, as that the Minister may be best heard in his Prayer and administration, and that the greater number may commu∣nicate: and whether are the ten Commaundements set vp