The counsel of Washington, recommended in a discourse, delivered at Cambridge, February 22, 1800. / By Abiel Holmes, A.M. Pastor of the First Church in Cambridge. ; [Twelve lines of verse from Honeywood]


MR. HOLMES's DISCOURSE, RECOMMENDING THE Counsel OF Washington.
THE COUNSEL OF WASHINGTON, RECOMMENDED IN A DISCOURSE, DELIVERED AT CAMBRIDGE, FEBRUARY 22, 1800.
BY ABIEL HOLMES, A.M. PASTOR OF THE FIRST CHURCH IN CAMBRIDGE.
COLUMBIANS! long preserve that peerless page,
Stampt with the precepts of your warrior Sage;
In all your archives be the gift enroll'd,
Suspend it to your walls, encas'd in gold;
Bid schools recite it, let the priestly train
Chant it on festal days, nor deem the task profane;
When round your knees your infant offspring throng
To join the matin prayer, or evening song,
Those rites perform'd, invite them to attend
The farewell counsels of their good old Friend,
And say, he left you, as his last bequest,
These golden rules to make a nation blest.
HONEYWOOD.Printed by SAMUEL HALL, No. 53, Cornhill, BOSTON. 1800.
BY a Resolve of Congress, and a Proclamation of the President, dated January 6, 1800, it was "recommended to the people of the United States to assemble on the twenty-second day of February next, in such numbers and manner as may be convenient, publicly to testify their grief for the death of General GEORGE WASHINGTON, by suitable eulo|gies, orations, and discourses, or by public prayers."
The Counsel of Washington recommended.MICAH iv. 9.Now why dost thou cry out aloud?—is thy Coun|sellor perished?
THE answer to these tender inquiries is legible in the countenances of all, who compose this assembly. Yes, my fathers and brethren, my friends and fellow-citizens, I there read the cause of your lamentation. WASHINGTON, your COUNSELLOR, is perished. The Friend, the Father, of our country is no more; and ye have assembled to "testify your grief for his death." This sun marks the anniversary of his nativity.
—Thus with the year
Seasons return; but not to him returns

this day. To other climes, illustrious Shade! hast thou departed, where suns no longer measure the duration of thy existence; where seasons no more revolve; and where, we believe, thy felicity will be as interminable, as thy spirit is immortal.
Already, my respected auditors, have we paid the merited tribute to the memory of this revered and be|loved man. In this very sanctuary, on the reception of

the melancholy tidings of his death, we indulged the spontaneous emotions of sorrow; and, impatient of de|lay for legislative recommendation, we hastened at once to mitigate our grief by our tears, and to commemorate the man, whom we had always delighted to honour. On that mournful occasion, we contemplated him in the va|rious characters of the mighty man, and the man of war; of the prudent, and the ancient; of the honourable man, and the counsellor. What now remains? Had not that funereal service precluded a delineation of his character at this time; it would have be