A grammatical institute, of the English language, comprising, an easy, concise, and systematic method of education, designed for the use of English schools in America. : In three parts. : Part II. Containing, a plain and comprehensive grammar, grounded on the true principles and idioms of the language; with an analytical dissertation, in which the various uses of the auxiliary signs are unfolded and explained: and an essay towards investigating the rules of English verse. / By Noah Webster, Jun. Esq. ; [One line in Latin from Cicero]


A Grammatical Institute, OF THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE, COMPRISING, An easy, concise, and systematic Method of EDUCATION, Designed for the Use of English Schools IN AMERICA.
IN THREE PARTS. PART II. CONTAINING, A plain and comprehensive Grammar, grounded on the true Principles and Idioms of the Language; with an analytical Dissertation, in which vari|ous Uses of the Auxiliary Signs are unfolded and explained: And an Essay towards investigating the Rules of English Verse.
BY NOAH WEBSTER, Jun. Esq.
Usus est Norma Loquendi.
CICERO.HARTFORD: PRINTED BY HUDSON & GOODWIN, FOR THE AUTHOR, M, DCC, LXXXIV. Under Protection of the Statute.
PREFACE▪ To the Second Part.THE design of this Part of the Institute, is to frame a Grammar of our own language upon its true principles, and calculate it for the benefit of common English schools. No Grammar, that has hitherto appeared, seems well adapted to answer this particular purpose. Mr. Dilworth's, which has had the most general circulation in America, is not con|structed upon the principles of the English language; it is, to use the words of an eminent scholar and critic, "A mere Latin Grammar, very indifferent|ly translated." As to those articles in which all languages agree, such as the general definition of nouns, adjectives, &c. he is usually right; but wherever our language is built upon principles pe|culiar to itself, he is invariably wrong. We are apt to be surprised, that men who made the languages their principal study, and during their whole lives, were employed in teaching youth, should 〈◊〉 dis|cover that the Grammar of one language would not answer for another; but our wonder will cease when we reflect, that the English nation a• large have, till very lately, entertained the idea that our lan|guage was incapable of being reduced to a sy• of rules; and that even now many men of much classical learning warmly contend that the only way of ac|quiring, a grammatical knowledge of the English Tongue, is first to learn a Latin Grammar, That such a stupid opinion should ever have prevailed in the English nation—that it should still have advo|cates—nay that it should still be carried into prac|tice, can be resolved into no cause 〈◊〉 the amazing influence of habit upon the human mind.
Our language has now arrived to a great degree of purity: and many writers of the last and present age have, both in elegance and sublimity of style, equaled, if not surpassed the Roman authors of the Au