Reasons humbly offered by the governour, assistants, and fellowship of Eastland-Merchants against the giving of a general liberty to all persons whatsoever to export the English vvoollen-manufacture whither they please.


REASONS
Humbly Offered by the
GOVERNOUR,
Assistants,
And FELLOWSHIP of
Eastland-Merchants.
Against the giving of a General LIBERTY
to all Persons whatsoever to Export the
ENGLISH
VVoollen-MANUFACTURE
Whither they PLEASE.
LONDON:
Printed Anno. Dom. MDCLXXXIX.
REASONS humbly offered by the Governour, Assist∣ants,
and Fellowship of Eastland Merchants, against
the giving of a general Liberty to all Persons what∣soever
to export the English Woollen-Manufacture whi∣ther
they please.IT was the observation of a great Man in his time,
that the ill Success which did attend Princes and States
in their great Affairs, did generally arise through the
mistake of that which was their true Interest; and cer∣tainly
of all Errors in Judgment, that which relates
to a Man's Interest, where it has been mistaken, has
been ever observed to be of a most fatal Consequence; for
as it is natural for every thing to tend to its proper Centre,
so it is as natural for every Man to persue (tho' by different
ways and means) that which he apprehends to be his proper
Interest; wherein if he happen to be mistaken, what can
follow? But instead of applying himself to that which is his
real advantage, he manytimes persueth with his utmost En∣deavours,
that which in the issue proveth the direct contrary.
That they are under a mis-apprehension of this nature, who
do assert that a general Liberty to all Persons to export our
Woollen-Manufacture where they please, will conduce much
to the interest of the Nation, under a supposition that it will
encrease the vent thereof; we humbly apprehend will be
clearly evident upon the following considerations; which (as
in duty bound) we submit to the Judgment of our Superiours.
1st. We affirm, That a General Permission of Exporta∣tion
(as before mentioned) will be a means to debase the
Reputation of our English-Manufacture, and consequently

render it less desireable and sought after abroad.
2ly. It will overthrow all the Incorporated Companies of
Merchants in England, as the Hamburgh, the Russia, (though
established by Act of Parliament) the East-Land, the Turkey,
the East-India, and the Affrican; the Mischiefs consequential
upon which, will be as followeth, viz.
1. The Trade of England will thereby be lost as to the
English, and come to be all, or at least wise the greatest
part, in the hands of Forreigners; as it formerly was,
before the said Companies were erected.2ly. All the Priviledges obtained by the said Compa∣nies
from the Princes, States, and Governours of
the places of their respective Residences (which are
of great advantage to the vending of our English-Manufacture)
will be utterly lost.3. The Navigation of England by degrees will be very
much impaired, and discouraged.3. Lastly, to name no more, a general Permission w