The other side of the question: or, A defence of the liberties of North-America. In answer to a late Friendly address to all reasonable Americans, on the subject of our political confusions. / By a citizen.


THE Other Side of the Question: OR, A DEFENCE OF THE LIBERTIES of NORTH-AMERICA. IN ANSWER TO A LATE FRIENDLY ADDRESS To All Reasonable Americans, ON THE SUBJECT OF OUR POLITICAL CONFUSIONS.
BY A CITIZEN.
NEW-YORK: Printed by JAMES RIVINGTON, fronting HANOVER-SQUARE. M,DCC,LXXIV.
THE Other Side of the Question: OR, A DEFENCE OF THE LIBERTIES of NORTH-AMERICA, &c.A Certain Friendly Address to all reasonable Americans, was just now put into my hands. Some people perhaps have read it, for I am told it was published six days ago; where|fore, after perusing, it seems proper to make a short answer to this performance: not because it is well written, or because there is the least danger any man will become a proselyte to the doctrines con|tained in it; but for the following reasons, which candor obliges me to mention.
FIRST. I answer this pamphlet, for the very purpose which alone the pamphlet itself is likely to effect,—to encourage the paper manufactory.
SECONDLY. I answer it for the sake of the Prin|ter, who must be sadly out of pocket, by publish|ing such woeful performances: And therefore he is

hereby requested to print this in a large type, and the like, so as to make the most on't.
THIRDLY. I write, because from the futility of the author's reasoning, no body else may think it worth the trouble. And if so, why then he would very naturally conclude that he had written an excel|lent unanswerable treatise, which conclusion might inflate the poor creature's vanity, in such man|ner as to tempt him into other imprudencies of the same kind. The public thanks therefore will be my due, for removing, or at least preventing a common nusance.
LASTLY. I am prompted to this undertaking out of regard to the fair-sex. For many weak women may be exceedingly frighted by that awful compound of threats, and texts, and homilies.
Now then, gentle reader, having told thee the origin. I shall next acquaint thee with the charac|ter of this new acquaintance, which my Master James hath introduced to thy hand.—I will not, as is too common with controversial people, whether politic, or polemic: I will not, I say, use any acrimonious expressions, against this unhappy author; for whose weaknesses and wanderings, I have the utmost pity and compassion. On the contrary, I shall treat him with the greatest gentleness and re|spect, owing in some measure to my very great reve|rence for the Clergy, one of which he is, as I have been informed. And truly the frequent quotations from scripture, together with the illiberal language contained in his pamphlet, will naturally lead folks to believe so. For it unfortunately happens, that

the generality of these Gentlemen, from an ungain habit they acquire by abusing the poor Devil, are too apt to vilify and asperse their neighbours. So