The schismatick sifted. Or, The picture of Independents, freshly and fairly washt-over again. Wherein, the sectaries of these times (I mean, the principall seducers to that dangerous and subtile schisme of Independency) are with their own proper pensils, and self-mixed colours, most lively set forth to be a generation of notorious dissemblers and sly deceivers. Collected (for the most part) from undeniable testimonies under their own hands, in print; for the more fair and full satisfaction, and undeceiving of moderate and much misled Christians; especially by the outward appearance of their piety of life, and a pretence of their preaching sound-doctrine. / By John Vicars.


THE
SCHISMATICK
SIFTED.
OR,
The Picture of INDEPENDENTS,
Freshly and Fairly Washt-over again.
Wherein, the Sectaries of these Times (I mean, the princi∣pall
Seducers to that dangerous and subtile Schisme of
Independency) are with their own proper Pensils, and
Self-mixed Colours, most lively set forth
to be a Generation of notorious
Dissemblers and fly
Deceivers.
Collected (for the most part) from undeniable Testimonies
under their own Hands, in Print; for the more fair and
full satisfaction, and undeceiving of moderate and much
misled Christians; especially by the outward appearance
of their Piety of Life, and a pretence of their Preaching
sound-Doctrine.
By JOHN VICARS.
For Sions sake, I cannot hold my peace.ISAIAH, 62. 1.Now I beseech you, Brethren, mark them which cause Divisions and
Offences, contrary to the doctrine which ye have learned, and avoid
them. For, These, that are Such serve not our Lord Jesus Christ,
but their own belly; And by good words and fair speeches, De∣ceive
the Simple.ROM. 16. 17, 18.London: Printed for Nathanael Webb, and William Grantham,
at the Grey-hound in Pauls Church-yard. 1646.
To the Right Honourable, and most
worthily to be highly honoured
THOMAS ADAMS, Esquire;
Lord Major of the most famous and
renowned City of LONDON; I. V.
prayeth all encrease of Gracious Honour, here
and of Glorious Happinesse,
hereafter.Right Honourable:IT was the sad and unhappy complaint of the
Prophet Jeremy in his dayes, and in that un∣gracious
and ungratefull City, Jerusalem;
That no man among them was valiant for the
Truth. Jer. 9. 3. Nay, the Lord himselfe, by the same
Prophet, seeming to be, as it were, transported with holy
indignation and just jealousie of neglect of his honour,
and worship, bids them Run to and fro through the streets of
Jerusalem, to see and seek if they could find any one man that
loved the Truth. Jer. 5. 1. Yea, this penury of pious men
was not only among the poor and mean men, Ver. 4. But
even among the Great Men and Rulers of Jerusalem, ver. 5
But, ô the honour and happinesse of this most famous,
faithfull and ever renowned City of London! This City
of our God, of which (most justly) so many glorious Things
are, and may, and must be spoken, to the Glory of God,
and honour thereof! Over which, such a renowned and
religious, such a valiant