A sermon preached before the Right Honourable the House of Peeres, in the Abbey at Westminster, the 26. of Novemb. 1645. Being the day appointed for solemne and publique humiliation. / By Jer: Burroughes. Published by order of the said House.


Iovis 27. Novemb. 1645.ORdered by the Lords in Parliament, That M. Burroughes, who Preached yesterday in the Abby-Church Westminster before the Lords in Parliament, being the day of the Publique Fast, is hereby thanked for the great pains he took in the said Sermon; And desired to Print and Publish the same; which is onely to be Printed by Authority under his own hand.
Io: Browne, Cleric. Parliamentorum.I appoint Robert Dawlman to print this Sermon, and no other.
Jer: Burroughes.TO THE RIGHT HONOVRABLE, The House of PEERES, assembled in PARLIAMENT.Right Honourable,GOd calls you to dayes of Fasting and Prayer, you call his Ministers to joyn with you, to be helpfull to you in them. When should you ever think to be dealt faithfully with, if not now? How can we recompence better any faithfulnesse of yours to God and the State, but by being faithfull to your soules? These Prayers and Sermons passe away moneth af∣ter moneth, but know, that God will call them all over againe, he will require an account of them one day. It is a happinesse you have beyond the greatest part of the Nobility of the Christian world, that you have the Word in the plainnesse and power of it administred to you. You cannot honour the Word so much as it honours you; the Preachers of the Word have not so much need of you, as you have of that Word they preach to you. Your Honours have the largest op∣portunities to honour God, and to doe good to his Saints, that ever Noblemen had since the world began. God hath laid out work for you fit for truly noble spirits; you have as many Saints to take care of in these Kingdomes, as ever any on earth had, use them kindly, that they may blesse you, and blesse God for you; be not exasperated against any of them by those who know not, or consider not of what spirits they are. Although we should account it a heaven upon earth that there were nothing but wheat growing in that part of the field where we live; yet seeing there are many tares sprung up, ma∣ny errors and sinfull practices; if your Lordships should now be put
 upon such severity, as out of zeale to pluck up all the errors which are not venemous weeds destroying, but tares onely, some way distur∣bing the growth of the wheat, you shall as much as in you lies pluck up much of the wheat, denying such as are godly and peaceable the enjoyment of the Ordinances of Christ, (for so it is, if they cannot partake of them, without that which is sinne to them) and as some would have it, cast them out of the Kingdome: This, I feare, will not be acceptable to the meek, gentle, forbearing spirit of Jesus Christ, in the day of your account.
For connivence at Blasphemies or damnable Heresies, God forbid any should open his mouth; those who are guilty herein agains