A speech delivered by Mr. Pym, at a conference of both Houses; ocasioned from divers instructions, resolved upon by the House of Commons, and presented to the Lords, and read by Sir Henry Vayne. Discovering the dangers and miseries the three kingdomes are liable unto, by reason of his Majesties evill counsellors as the effects doth declare. As also, the justice, reasonablenesse, and necessitie of changing them.


 A SPEECH DELIVERED BY Mr. PYM, AT A CONFERENCE OF BOTH HOUSES;
Ocasioned from divers Instructions, Resolved upon by the House of Commons, and presented to the Lords, and read by Sir HENRY VAYNE.
Discovering the dangers and mise∣ries the three Kingdomes are liable unto, by Reason of his Majesties evill Counsellors as the effects doth declare.
As also, the Justice, Reasonablenesse, and Necessitie of changing them.
LONDON, Printed for John Bull, June 15. 1642.
AT A CONFERENCE OF BOTH Houses, there was presented to the Lords divers Instructions, agreed upon in the House of Commons, which were read by Sir Henry Vaine, and after the reading of them Mr. Pym spake as followeth.THat these Instructions as your Lordships may perceive consisted of six Articles, of the first five he should have no cause to speake much, because they could afford no matter of doubt wherefore hee onely recited them thus.
The first conteined a friendly apprehensi∣on of the kindnesse of our Brethren in the Parliament of Scotland in their ready offer to assist this Kingdome against the Rebells of Ireland.
The second was onely a Declaration of our willingnesse to accept that offer.
The third, a Narrative of our proceedings and preparations for that warre.
The fourth, a particular desire of 1000. men from the Scots to bee speedily sent into the North parts of Ireland.
The fift a publike undertaking and ingagement to make satisfacti∣on for the charges of those men.
 The sixt was to present to his most excellent Majestie an humble Petition: That he would be pleased to change those Councells which hath beene so mischievous to the State, and of so much danger and misery to his Majestie and his Subjects, and to imploy in his great af∣faires such Councellors and Ministers as might be approved by his great Councell the Parliament, this (he said) had beene resolved by the House of Commons with good deliberation, and might perchance ad∣mit some ob•ection, wherefore hee was Command•d to speake some∣what to shew the Justice the Reasonablenesse, the Necessitie of it therein, wherein (he said) he would proceede by these steps.
The first was this, that the dangers and miseries which come to a State by evill Councels are of the most pernicious and destructive na∣ure of all others: The comparison betwixt a Naturall Body and a Po∣liticke Body is usuall, they resemble in nothing more than in this.
Death, and sicknesse, and d•nger, have divers wayes of approach to naturall Bodies, sometimes by outward violence, sometimes by intem∣perance in diet, exercise or unwholesomnesse of the Ayre.
The f