The political will and testament of that great minister of state, Cardinal Duke de Richelieu done out of French.


THE POLITICAL Will and Testament Of that Great MINISTER of STATE CARDINAL Duke de RICHELIEƲ; FROM WHENCE LEWIS XIV. the Present French KING has taken his Measures and Maxims of GOVERNMENT.
In Two PARTS.
Done out of French.
LONDON, Printed, and are to be Sold by the Book∣sellers of London and VVestminster, MDCXCV.
ADVERTISEMENT TO THE READER.THE World would have reason to Wonder, that this Political Testament of Cardinal de Ri∣chelieu, could have been conceal'd so long, did not the Consequence of it, and the use to which it was designed, convince us that he never inten∣ded the publishing thereof. But whereas it is the Fate of Mysterys to have a certain Date, and that it is impossible not to confide things of this Nature to some Indiscreet Persons, there is no reason to wonder at their falling at last into Liberal hands, who are glad to Impart them to the World.
It would be a Reflection on the Judgment of the Public, to Imagine that they could mistake this Work; for tho Men can never be too Cautious to avoid be∣ing imposed upon; It is impossible to read this without discovering all the Characters of that great Man's mind. The Elevation and Beauty of his Genius, joyn'd to the Nobleness of his Expressions, appears clearly in this; but more∣over what variety of matter is not found in it? They are all handled with so much Solidity, that it is obvious that he knew them by a profound Meditation, seconded by a consummated Experience,
and that none but himself was capable to Write them.
If it be very delightful to read the Reflections and Political Precepts which the best Authors make on the principal Events they Relate, that satisfaction, is considerably lessen'd, when we consider that most of them only reason after the Fact, and in their Study's, and that they would be at a great loss themselves to overcome the difficultys of the least Negotiation, or of the least dangerous Intrigue.
But this Political Testament is of a different Na∣ture. It is a favourite and a first Minister of State, who has Govern'd upwards of 25 years one of the most considerable Kingdoms of Europe, who has Guided it; and as it were held it by the hand in the first years of its Rise: Who prescribes no Coun∣cel, but what he has often practis'd himself; and Finally who by his Steadiness and Courage has o∣vercome an infinite number of Obstacles, and In∣trigues, which would have overwhelm'd any other Man.
Therefore there never was a Work of more use for those who are called to the administration of great Affairs, Kings, Princes, Favorites, Mini∣sters, Councellors of State, Ecclesasticks, Nobles, Magistrates, Courtiers, and in fine, all sorts and degrees of Men, find instructions here, of an In∣estimable Value.
Not that this Work is in the Condition in which it would undoubtedly have been had he had leisure to revise it; but tho some carelesness is discovered in it, and some