Certaine letters of Henry Jeanes minister of Gods word at Chedzoy and Dr. Jeremy Taylor concerning a passage of his, in his further explication of originall sin.


Certaine Letters OF HENRY IEANES Minister of Gods word AT CHEDZOY. AND Dr IEREMY TAYLOR Concerning A passage of his, in his further Explication of Originall sin.
OXFORD, Printed by HEN: HALL for THO: ROBINSON, 1660.
Dr Taylor in his further explication of the doctrine of originall sin, pag. 496.THat every man is inclined to evill, some more, some lesse, but all in some instan∣ces; is very true: and it is an effect, or con∣dition of nature, but no sinne properly; 1: be∣cause that which is unavoidable is not a sinne; 2: because it is accidentall to nature, not intrin∣secall, and essentiall; 3: It is superinduc'd to na∣ture, and is after it, &c.
To the unprejudiced Reader.I shall only give thee a briefe narrative of the occasion of the ensuing letters: one Mr T. C. of Bridgwater being at my house, brake out into extraordinary, (that I say not excessive, and Hyperbolicall) prayses of Dr Ie∣remy Taylor; I expressed my concurrence with him in great part; nay I came nothing behind him in the just cōmendations of his admirable wit, great parts, quick and elegant pen, his abilites in Criticall learning, and his profound skil in antiquity: but notwithstanding all this I professed my dissent from some of his opinions which I judged to be erroneous; and I instanced in his doctrine of originall sin; now his further explication of this lay then causually in the window (as I take it) which hereupon I took up, and turned unto the passage now under debate, and shewed unto Mr T. C. that therein was grosse nonsense, and blasphemy; he for his own part, with a great deale of modesty, forthwith declined all further dispute of the businesse, but withal he told me, that he would, If I so pleased, give Dr Tay∣lor notice of what I said; whereunto I agreed, and in a short time he brought me from the Dr a faire, and civill invitation to send him my exceptions, and with it a promise of a candid reception of them; whereupon I drew them up in a letter unto Mr T. C. the Copy where∣of followeth.
Letters of the Authour And Dr IEREMY TAYLOR To Mr T. C.Sir,I have here, according unto your desire sent you my ecce∣ptions against that passage in Dr Taylor, concerning which you discoursed at my house; It is in his fur∣ther explication of the Doctrine of originall sinne, page 496: and it is the second argument, which he brings to prove; that inclination to evill is no sinne properly; because it is accidentall to nature, not intrinsecall and es∣sentiall. The argument put into forme may be reduced into two syllogismes.
The first.Sinne properly is not accidentall to the nature of man.An inclination to evill is accidentall to the nature of man: thereforeAn inclination to evill is no sinne properly.A second Syllogisme is.Sinne properly so called is intrinsecall, and essentiall to the nature of man.An inclination to evill is not i