The tragedie of Sophonisba. Written by Iohn Marston..


THE TRAGEDIE OF SOPHONISBA.
WRITTEN BY IOHN MARSTON.
LONDON. Printed by Iohn Windet and are to be sold neere Luagate. 1606.
Adv. 〈◊〉
Argumentum.A gratefull harts iust haight: Ingtatitude.
And vowes base breach with worthy shame persu'd
A womans constant loue as firm as fate
A blamelesse Counsellor well borne for state
The folly to inforce free loue, These know
This subject with full light doth amply show.
Interlocutores.Massinissa. Kings in Lybia riuals for So∣phonisba.Syphax. Kings in Lybia riuals for So∣phonisba.Asdruball. Father to So∣phonisba.Gelosso. A Senator of Carthage.Bytheas. A Senator of Carthage.Hanno Mag∣nus. Captaine for Carthage.Iugurth. Massinissas Ne∣phew.Scipio. Generals of Rome.Laelius. Generals of Rome.Vangue. An Ethiopian slaue.Carthalon. A Senator of Carthage.Gisco. A Surgean of Carthage.Nuntius.Sophonisba. Daughter to As∣druball of Car∣thage.Zanthia. Her maide.Erictho. An Inchantres.Arcathia. Waiting women to Sophonisba.Nycea. Waiting women to Sophonisba.Prologus.Cornets sound a march.Enter at one dore the Prologue: too Pages with torches: Asdru∣bal and Iugurth too Pages with lights: Massinissa leading Sophonisba: Zanthia bearing Sophonisbas traine Ar∣cathia and Nicea: Hano and Bytheas At the other dore too Pages with targets and Iauelines, too Pages with lights, Syphax armd from top to toe, Vangue followes.These thus entred, stand still, whilst the Prologue resting be∣tweene both troups speakes.THe Sceane is Lybia, and the subiect thus.
Whilst Carthage stoode the onely awe of Rome,
As most imperiall seate of Lybia,
Gouernd by Statsmen each as great as Kings
(For 17. Kings were Carthage feodars)
Whilst thus she florishd, whilst hir Hannibal
Made Rome to tremble, and the Wals yet pale:
Then in this Carthage Sophinisba liu'd
The farre fam'd daughter of great Asdruball?
For whom ('mongst others) potent Syphax sues
And well grac'd Massinissa riuals him
Both Princes of proud Scepters: but the lot
Of doubtfull fauour Massinissa grac'd
At which Syphax grows blacke: For now the night
Yeelds loud resoundings of the nuptiall pompe:
Apello strikes his Harpe: Hymen his Torch
Whilst lowring Iuno with ill-boding eye
Sits enuious at too forward Venus: Loe
The instant night: And now ye worthier minds
To whom we shall present a female glory
(The wonder of a constancie so fixt
That Fate it selfe might well grow enuious)
〈…〉asd to sit such as may merrit oile
And holy dew stil'd from diuiner heat,
For rest thus knowing, what of this you heare,
The Author lowly hopes, but must not feare.
For iust worth neuer rests on popular frowne,
To haue done well is faire deeds onely crowne.
Nee se quisiuerit extra.Cornets sound a March, the Prologue leads Massinissas troupes ouer the Stage, and departs: Syphax troupes onely stay.Actus Primi.Scena prima.Syphax and Vangue.
SY: Syphax, Syphax, why wast thou cursd a King?
What angry God made thee so great, so vile?
Contemd, disgraced, thinke, wert thou as