The Christians tvvo chiefe lessons viz. selfe-deniall, and selfe-tryall. As also the priviledge of adoption and triall thereof. In three treatises on the texts following: viz. Matt. 16.24. 2 Cor. 13.5. Iohn 1.12,13. By T.H.


THE CHRISTIANS Tvvo Chiefe LESSONS, Viz. Selfe-Deniall, And Selfe-Tryall.
AS ALSO THE PRIVILEDGE OF ADOPTION And TRIAL〈…〉•n three TREATISES 〈…〉EXTS following: Viz.
MATT. 16.24.2 COR. 13.5.IOHN 1.12, 13.
By T. H.
LONDON, P〈…〉•y T. B. for P. Stephens and C. Merc•… at the •olden Lion in S. Pauls Churchyard. 1640.
To The HONOVRABLE and truly Religious LADY, the Lady ANNE VVAKE, Grace and Peace through Iesus Christ be multiplied.Most honoured Madam,HAving had some yeares experi∣ence of Your zeale for God, love to the Truth, and mem∣bers of Christ, continuall ex∣ercising your selfe in religious duties, and carefull endeavour so to adorne your profession in forraine parts, that the name of God and his doctrine might not bee prophaned by any of your family a∣mong such as are strangers to it, and ha∣ving observed how your spirit hath been stirred, when you have seene the supersti∣tious

and idolatrous practises of other na∣tions; and •et with much affability, and sweetnes of carriage, applying your selfe to those people by all offices of courtesie & charity, seeking to gaine their affecti∣ons, and credit to the Gospel; having also had speciall helpes & incouragements of your Ladiships example and counsell to further my self in the wayes of Christ: I have emboldned my self to take this occa∣sion to testifie to the world, that I have great cause to blesse God, that ever I had the happinesse to live under your roofe. And wel knowing how welcome Books of piety and devotion are to you, as a small acknowledgement of my dutiful respect, and thankefulnesse for many favours; I here dedicate unto your Ladiship these ensuing Treatises of a grave and godly Author.
If the Copie had beene sent to the Presse immediately from the Author,

it would have come forth more exact and perfect; but sure I am, if I or some other, had not taken some paines in the perusall and transcribing thereof, after it came into the Printers hands, it would have passed the Presse more imperfectly then now it doth.
The Printer, tendering the Au∣thours reputation, and the Readers benefit, hath beene a some cost to have it reviewed, and corrected; and one that was inwardly acquainted with the Authour hath laboured with me in this taske; yet we durst not make so bold, as to alter his phrase, or adde any thing •f our owne; onely we amended such errours as would have beene im∣puted to the Authour through the over∣sight of the Scribe▪
The matter handled therein, is of such importance, that I doubt not but

the publishing thereof will be very ac∣ceptable and usefull to such as desire to be more throughly instructed in the way of the Lord, and in matters of their owne salvation.
The two great and difficult lessons of Christianity concerning Selfe-de∣niall & Selfe-tryall, are here