A lamentation in vvhiche is shevved what ruyne and destruction cometh of seditious rebellyon


A LAMEN¦TATION
IN VVHICHE
IS SHEVVED what Ruyne
and de∣struction
cometh of
seditious re∣bellyon.
ANNO. M.D.XXXVI.
A LAMENTATION.IF STVDY HAD GOTEN
me as moch eloquence, as true and
vnfeyned loue of my countrey gy∣ueth
me cause to lament: thē durst
I boldely say, that there is none so
wycked, none so vnnaturall, none
so farre vnder all the senses of humanitie, but I
coude fully perswade hym, nothynge so moche to
be eschewed, as sedition, none soo worthy all pu∣nyshement,
as they whyche trayterously make of
one nation two, of them that euen now were fren∣des,
sodaynly to be vtter ennemies. But seing min
eloquence, whiche I muste nedes graunte to be
very smalle, can not so serue me, as I desyre in so
weighty a mattier, I wyll see what loue, sorowe,
and pitie can do, whiche if they coulde as ernest∣ly
worke, as they be greatte in me, I wolde truste
to make all honeste stomackes to deteste and ab∣horre
sedicious traytours. Take awaye the com∣maundementes
of god, destroye all the lawes of
nature and of man, may not eyther the hygh com∣modyties,
that come of mutuall concorde betwene
all the kynges subiectes, and the kynges grace, or
the excedynge damages, that ensue open sedition,
kepe any honest harte, in maynteynynge the one,
and fleinge the other? But in so shamefull an act,
why do I speke of honest hartes? For who is he,
that can thynke him selfe to haue any veyne of an
honeste man, that feareth not god, that loueth not
his countrey, that obeyeth not his prince, that fy∣nally
dothe as moche as he can to pulle away na∣ture,

honesty, and al good lawes? What is he that
can say, he is an englyshe man, and that he careth
not, though the welth of Englande be troden vn∣der
the foote? A beast he is, a man he can neuer be
iudged, that passeth but on his owne welth & ple∣sure.
Alas how vnworthy is he to be shaped after
the fourme of a manne, howe vnmete to dwell a∣monge
men, whiche seeth what foloweth sedition,
and yet woll endeuour hym selfe to styrre the qui∣ette
and obedient hartes of the people to sedition?
He that with hym selfe ernestly ymagineth, howe
moche bloode muste nedes be shedde, what a nom∣ber
muste nedes be slayne, howe many good tow∣nes
shall be robbed and spoyled, howe many fer∣mours,
and honeste howseholders shall be vtterly
vndone, howe many gentyll men for lacke of their
rentes shalbe fayn to lay their landes to morgage,
or vtterly to selle them away, howe many honeste
women shall be defiled, howe many virgins raui∣shed:
He that setteth the blody feld before his eies,
here legges, there heedes, these deadly wounded,
those vtterly deed, is it possible, that any man can
so cast of humanitie, so hate men, that he had lea∣uer
haue so many deed, as nedes must die in suche
cruel diuision, than to haue them aliue & his fren∣des?
If our mooste gratious prince, god saue his
lyfe, and theyrs that so wyshe, had giuen you some
great occasiou, to haue gone