The confession of Mr. Humphrey Marston, and his speech at the place of execution in Aldersgate-street on Munday last, being the 21 of August, 1654.:  With a narrative of the whole transactions of the business, in relation to his tryal, charge, conviction, and condemnation. The name of him who betrayed him: and the manner how he disputed Canon house near Windsor, with a great party of horse before he was taken.


THE CONFESSION OF Mr. HUMPHREY MARSTON,
And his Speech at the place of Execution in Aldersgate-street on Munday last, being the 21 of August, 1654.
With a Narrative of the whole Transactions of the business, in relation to his Tryal, Charge, Con∣viction, and Condemnation.
The Name of him who betrayed him: And the manner how he disputed Canon house near Windsor, with a great party of horse before he was taken.
Aug. 21London, Printed for G. Horton, 1654.
An exact Relation of the Life and Death of Mr. Marston, who received the fatal sentence at the Sessions in the Old Bay∣ley, to be hanged by the neck til he was dead, in Aldersgate street, on Munday the 21 of this instant August: Toge∣ther with his speech at the place of exe∣cution.THere is a Maxim, That the Law delighteth in certainty, and it doth abandon incertainty, as the Mo∣ther of all debate and confusion; then which, there is nothing more odious in Law; for God himself ruleth by Law, E∣ternal, Moral, and Natural; they have cer∣tainty
in them, and he ruleth not other∣wise, or contrary to them. And can it be imagined, that there is a Mortal living, that wil think it a diminution to his honour, if men chuse the Law for their Sanctuary, ra∣ther then their changeable Affections, and mutable Wil and Pleasure?
But we shall not insist upon any thing by way of Circumstance; but rather interwove his life and conversation, with his present sufferings, to wit, He was a Gentleman of known and faithful integrity to the Weal-publike of this Nation: No∣thing too dear did he prize, to purchase his Coun∣tries liberty from tyranny and slavery: No meanes was left unassayed for the recovering of the Free∣born people of England from the Norman Yoke; And nothing did he esteem, or hold in competiti∣on less, than the exposing of his life and fortunes, for the regaining of his Native Countries Liberties. For, as he was a cordial and precious Christian, free from the wicked and abominable Vices of swear∣ing, drinking, defrauding, &c. so was he souldier of a most magnanimous and puissant spirit, never
dreading the face of th…〈…〉 Enemy that ever durst attempt a Charge …t him; but alwayes laying of himself forth 〈◊〉 the Common-cause of publike freedom. And whereas some are pleased to give out, that he was apprehended for Clipping and Coyning, it appears evident to the contrary, by the Sentence of Death pronounced against him at the Sessions in the Old-bayley, where no such Bill of Indictment was exhibited against him; nor no process in Law, but onely upon the Account of killing the two Messengers in Aldersgate-str