An examination of and some answer to a pamphlet, intitled, a Narrative and defence of the proceedings of the ministers of Hampshire, who disapproved of Mr. Breck's settlement at Springfield. With a vindication of those ministers and churches, that approv'd of, and acted in the settlement of said Mr. Breck. : [Two lines from Proverbs]


AN ANSWER TO THE Hampshire NARRATIVE.
An EXAMINATION of AND some ANSWER to A Pamphlet, intitled, A Narrative and Defence of the Pro∣ceedings of the Ministers of Hampshire, who disapproved of Mr. Breck's Settlement at Spring∣field.
WITH A VINDICATION OF those Ministers and Churches, that approv'd of, and acted in the Settlement of said Mr. Breck.
Prov. xviii. 17.He that is first in his own Cause, seemeth just; but his Neighbour cometh and searcheth him.
BOSTON: Printed by J. Draper, for H. Foster, at his Shop in Cornhil. 1736.
An Examination of AND some Answer to THE Hampshire Narrative & Defence.THE Case of the first Church and Parish in Springfield, with Respect to the Set∣tlement of the Rev. Mr. Robert Breck in the pastoral Office among them, has in∣deed made a great Noise through the Coun∣try; and the Conduct of those who have been immediately concern'd, approv'd or blam'd, accor∣ding to the Information Persons have received, or as they have stood affected to one or other of the acting Parties. But the extraordinary Noise has been occasioned by the extraordinary Methods taken to hin∣der the said Settlement, in direct Opposition to those Liberties of the Churches, which are confirm'd to them by Law, and they have been in the constant Use and Exercise of. If the Reverend Gentlemen in the County of Hampshire, who disapprov'd of Mr. Breck s Settlement at Springfield, could but have thought they kept themselves pure, by forbearing to act in it themselves, and sending their formal
Protest against it, and then left those call'd by the Church to judge in the Affair, (of which Number were the Eldest Ministers in their own County) to have acted according to their Light & Consciences, with∣out employing the secular Arm upon the Occasion, much of the Noise had, to be sure, been prevented. Or if after the strange Interposition of some in civil Authority, to which we have very good Grounds to think the disapproving Gentlemen of the sacred Order were accessary, they could have been conten∣ted to have let the Matter remaind the Subject of Conversation only, without runing it into the pub∣lic Prints, the Noise had been still much less, and the Censures bestow'd on either Party fewer and milder. But not thinking enough was done to blacken Mr. Breck, and bring an odious Imputation on the Council, by the two Letters publish'd in the Boston Journal, by these Gentlemen themselves, or some Body that undertook their Vindication, before any Thing had been publish'd on the other Side of the Question, they have now thrust into the World a remarkable Piece, containing about seven Sheets; intitled, A Narrative and Defence of the Proceedings