An enquiry into the new opinions, chiefly propagated by the Presbyterians of Scotland together with some animadversions on a late book, entitled, A defence of The vindication of the kirk : in a letter to a friend at Edinburgh / by A.M., D.D.


AN
ENQUIRY
INTO THE
New Opinions
(Chiefly) Propagated by the
Presbyterians of Scotland;
Together also with some Animadversions
on a Late Book, Entituled, A Defence
of the Vindications of the Kirk:
In a LETTER to a Friend
at EDINBURGH.
By A. M. D. D.
Jeremiah 6.16.—Ask for the Old Paths, where
is the good way, and walk therein, and ye shall
find rest for your Souls: but they said, we will
not walk therein.LONDON:
Printed for Walter Kettilby, at the Bishop's-Head
in St. Paul's Church-yard, 1696.
THE
CONTENTS
OF THIS
TREATISE.THE Introduction, inviting all
the true Sons of the Church (espe∣cially
the Afflicted Clergy) to the
most serious Exercise of true Re∣pentance
and Humiliation, P. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, &c.The Doctrines and Principles that we con∣tend
for against the later Sectaries are Primi∣tive,
Catholic, and Orthodox. p 9, 10, 11.CHAP. I.The Insufficiency of those Pleas and Argu∣ments
managed by the Presbyterians, against
the Catholic Church, in Defence of their New
Doctrine of Parity, p. 12, 13, 14.
Their Arguments reduc'd to three general
Heads, p. 15.1. Their Pleas from the Pretended imme∣diate
Institution of our Saviour, considered,
p. 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21.2. Their Arguments from the Confusion of
Names, observable in the New Testament,
proved to be Vain and Sophistical, p. 22, 23,
24, 25, &c.3. Their Arguments from the Testimony of
Ecclesiastical Writters examined, p. 39, 40.The Testimony of St. Clement the Aposto∣lical
Bishop of Rome, Vindicated from the
Wilful Mistakes of Presbyterians, p. 41, 42,
43, 44, &c.The Testimony of St. Polycarp Bishop of
Smyrna and Disciple of St. John the Apostle,
enquired into particularly, p. 49, 50, 51.The Testimony from Hermas impartially
viewed, and the Disingenuity of Monsiour
Blondel reproved, p. 52, 53, 54, &c.Pope Pius his Epistle to Justus Viennensis
Censured as Spurious; and if it was Genuine,
cannot serve the Presbyterian Design, p. 56.The Instance of Marcion the Heretic as un∣fit
to support the New Doctrine, as the former
Testimony from the Spurious Epistle of Pope
Pius, p. 57.The Testimony from Justin Martyr imper∣tinently
alledged by our Adversaries, p. 58, 59.The Testimony of the Gallican Martyrs,
p. 62, 63.
The Testimony of St. Cyprian, p. 64.The Testimony from the Authority of St.
Jerome, p. 65.The Error of St. Jerome discovered to be
very different from the New Doctrine of the
Presbyterians, p. 66.St. Jerome never acknowledged any Inter∣val,
after the Death of the Apostles in which
Ecclesiastical Affairs were managed, Commu∣ni
Presbyterorum Consilio. Ibid & Seqq.St. Jerome taught, that Episcopacy was
the Apostolical remedy of Schism, from p. 65.
to p. 80.The Testimony from the Authority of Saint
Austin, examined.Saint Austin reasoned from the Succession
o