The English globe being a stabil and immobil one, performing what the ordinary globes do, and much more / invented and described by the Right Honorable, the Earl of Castlemaine ; and now publish't by Joseph Moxon ...


 [illustration] The ENGLISH GLOBE Sch. 1
The English GLOBE Being a STABIL and Immobil one performing what the Ordinary Globes do, and much more.
Invented and described by the Right Ho∣norable, the Earl of Castlemaine. And now publish't by Joseph Moxon, Member of the Roy∣al Society, and Hydrographer to his most Excellent Majesty.
Fundasti TERRAM super STABILITATE sua.
Psal. 104. 5.LONDON. Printed for Joseph Moxon, at the Sign of Atlas on Ludgate〈…〉
TO THE READER Concerning this Globe, and the occa∣sion of the Inventing of it.NEW and profitable Inventions in Arts are like hid∣den Treasures found, which ought not to be reburied, and concealed again, but dispersed and made use of for the common good. This Globe then, and its De∣scription (which I have humbly obtained from the Right Hono∣rable, the Earl of Castlemaine) being both highly curious and useful, I thought I could not better serve (as I have always endeavoured) this, and future Ages, then by communicating it to them; and because the occasion of the Invention is so ac∣cidental, and (as it proves) so happy, I shall give you a short account of it.
Waiting upon my Lord in the beginning of Anno 1672, at his then arrival into England, I brought his Lordship (know∣ing that any thing new and ingenious would be acceptable to him) one of my 3 Inch Terrestrial Globes, with the Stars descri∣bed in the inside of its Case, which when his Lordship had con∣sidered, and bin inform'd by me, that its only Ʋse was to keep in memory the situation of Countries, and Order of the Con∣stellations and particular Stars, He intimated, that certainly much more might be done by it, and so returning beyond Sea fell upon this excellent Work.
When he came home again (which happned above a year ago) and was pleased to shew me what he had done, I was as much ravisht and suprised at the admirable Contrivance of his Globe, and the many unexpected Operations performed by it, as if I had bin a new Beginner in the Study of the Sphere;

Nor could my admiration be less, when I saw how (without the usual assistance of a Meridian Line, Mariners Compass, or other such helps) it composed it self to the true site and po∣sition of the World; how that in an instant, the Suns Altitude was naturally and plainly found by it, and this in all places of the World at the same time; Nor did it seem less strange to me, that so many curious Questions relating to Eclipses should be resolved by it, and what is more that Altimetry could possi∣bly have any relation to a Globe. Besides, I saw that not on∣ly the Practical part of Dialling was now rendred easy to a won∣der, but the Theorical also so plain, that every mean capacity might streight comprehend it; Nay, all the forrain Requisites to this Art (as the Declination of Planes, their I