Zelotes. A zeal for the house of God, blown up, in a sermon unto an assembly of Christians; in the south-part of Boston. On 8. d. XI. m. 1716,17. : A day of prayer kept by them, at their first entrance into a new edifice erected by them, for the publick worship of God our Saviour. / By Cotton Mather, D.D. and F.R.S. ; [Two lines from St. Ambrose]


Two SERMONS Preach'd at the DEDICATION of the New Meeting-House on Church-Green BOSTON, the 8th of January 1716, 17.
By the Reverend Dr. COTTON MATHER, And the Reverend Mr. BENJAMIN WADSWORTH.
ZELOTES A ZEAL For the HOUSE of GOD; Blown up, in a SERMON unto an ASSEMBLY of Christians; in the SOUTH-Part of BOSTON. On 8. d. XI. m. 1716, 17. A Day of PRAYER kept by them, at their FIRST ENTRANCE into a New EDIFICE Erected by them, for the Publick Wor|ship of GOD our SAVIOUR.
By Cotton Mather, D. D. and F. R. S.
Zelo Vindicatur Hierusalem; Zelo Ecclesia Congregatur.Ambro.BOSTON: Printed by J. Allen, for Nicho|las Boone, at the Sign of the BIBLE in Cornhill, 1717.
The Zealous Christian.Joh. II. 17.The Zeal of thy House hath Eaten me up.WE are at this time concerned with a people professing a Zeal for the House of God that has Eaten up a Little part of their Estates, which they have devoted unto the Building of the House, wherein We are now Assembled be|fore Him. Our concern with them, is not only to assure them, that what the Zeal has Eaten up, will not be Lost, but also to remind them of o|ther and further Operations, where|in their Zeal is to be demonstrated: That so their Zeal for the House of

God, may be uniform, and be univer|sal, & be justified. Hearken, my Be|loved Brethren. I do now some|thing more than fetch a Red hot Stone from the Altar, for this pur|pose, to keep alive the Flame of your Zeal: I bring the pattern of our admirable SAVIOUR, Even, our God, who is a consuming Fire. When the Psalmist, who is Renowned in all Ages for the Zeal of the House of God, which was flaming in him, gave this Account of himself, The Zeal of thy House hath Eaten me up, we may say, I pray thee, of whom spake the Psalmist this? Of himself, or of some other Man? The Answer must be, He was a Type of the Messiah, in what he Spake. It was foretold of the Messiah, That the Lord should come into His Temple, and act as a Refiner there. Our SA|VIOUR coming into the Temple, and purging the Temple of the Mo|ney-changers there, would have drawn the minds of the People unto the

Consideration of that famous Pro|phecy. Whether it had this Effect or no, the minds of His Disciples, were drawn to consider another Pro|phecy; and what was to be found in the Sixty ninth Psalm concerning Him. Every Israelite was to pay half a Shekel yearly to the service of the Temple. When any Man brought a Shekel, to change for Two Half-Shekels, there was a profit Exacted by the changer: And when the Shekel was brought for Two, there was a Double profit Exacted for the change. The like unlawful gains were made by selling of Cattle for the Sacrifices th