The pleasaunt and vvittie playe of the cheasts renewed with instructions both to learne it easely, and to play it well. Lately translated out of Italian into French: and now set furth in Englishe by Iames Rowbothum.


THE Pleasaunt and vvit¦tie Playe of the Cheasts renewed, with In∣structions both to learne it easely, and to play it well. Lately translated out of I∣talian into French: And now set furth in Englishe by Iames Rowbothum.
PRINTED AT LON∣don by Roulande Hall, for Iames Rowbothum, and are to be sold at hys shoppe vnder Bowe churche in Cheape syde.
1562.
LIBER AD LEC∣TOREM.HVne ego pingo iocū lusori fraude carentē
Caetera sunt variis omnia plena dolis.
Nobilis hic iocus est, vllas nec suscitat iras,
Atrae nec quicquam bilis inesse potest.
Caetera sē{per} habēt fucos, hic sem{per} 〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉
Caetera fraus ornat, nullus in hoc dolus est.
Etsi flexibili ligno latrunculus omnis
Cultro excindatur, stet{que} carens anima
Hic tamen armati nunc militis induit arma
Belligeri{que} gerit ligneus effigiem.
Sunt hic regis omnis qui suscepere regendi
Penthesilea quibus prima locata loco est,
Sūt comites, equites, elephātes, sunt pedites{que}
Ex quibus est acies ordine structa bono.
Ludite nunc reges, animis secludite curas
Regali{que} ioco tempora conterite:
Ludice nūc proceres, nūc anglica lude iuuētus
Et mercatores ludite, lude puer.
Vxor lude, rogo, colludas at{que} marite
Et simul innuptae ludite pierides
Ludite ductores, ludat quo{que} miles in armis.
Ludite milltiae, ludite vterque domi.
Si quis in hoc abaco cupiat {per}discere quicquā
Me legat vt le••• doctior esse queat.
W. Ward.To the right ho∣norable, the Lorde ROBERT DVD∣DELEY Maister of the Queenes horse, and Knight of the noble order of the Sarter, Iames Rowbothum wis∣sheth long lyfe with encrease of godly honour.AS THE graue and waightye affaires of Princes (moste hono∣rable) require men of profoūde knowledge and experience, whi∣che must dayly consider and easte in their myndes some good, holesome and profitable counsell for the go∣uernement of the common wealth by good lawes: so also muste they for recreation sake, surcease some∣time from those extreme trauailes of the mynde, and refreshe theyr memorie and carefull heades with some recreatiue exercise meete for their estate. And as there bee for noble men noble pastimes (and

inuented first onelye for the nobili∣tie) as feates of armes, turneys, fighting at the barriers, runninge at the tilt, cleane ryding of horses, with other like, whereby the nobi∣litie of realmes was first increased and great renowne gotten, & were done altogether with the strength of the arme and corage of the hart: so is there also for the lyke, certain other wittie inuentions of playes or games to recreate the mynde withall, and are learned and exer∣cised not with the outward stregth of the bodye, but with the inwarde force of witte and intelligence, to the great sharpening of the enten∣tiue partes of mannes vnderstan∣ding, the which I w