Awakening soul-saving truths, plainly delivered, in several sermons. In which is shewed, I. That many are called, who are not effectually called. II. That men may be of the visible church, and yet not be of the Lord's chosen. III. That the chosen of God are comparatively but few. / By Increase Mather. D.D. ; [Four lines of Scripture texts]


Awakening Soul-Saving Truths, Plainly Delivered, IN Several Sermons.
In which is Shewed,
I. That Many are Called, who are not Effectually Called.II. That Men may be of the Visible Church, and yet not be of the Lord's Chosen.III. That the Chosen of God are comparatively but Few.
By Increase Mather. D.D.
Joh. 9.•.— Night cometh when no man can work.
Phil. 2.12.Work out your Salvation with fear and trembling.
BOSTON: Printed by S. Kneeland, for B. Gray, and J. Edwards, at their Shops on the North and South side of the Town-House. 1720.
THE PREFACE.IT was the Earnest desire of some who heard these SERMONS Preached, and thought they were Edifyed by them, that caused me to consent to their being sent to the Press. One who has the Pen of • ready Writer, has Transcribed them, viz. the same who Transcribed my Sermons on the Beatitudes, and those of Sal|vation by Grace, both lately Published.
If God will graciously fulfill His blessed Promise, Psal. 92.14. They shall still bring forth fruit in Old Age, Let His Name alone have all the Glory. I have reason to expect that every Sermon I Preach will be my L•st▪

And therefore to ins•st on such Subjects
I hope may by the blessing of Chris• be m•st effectual for the good of Souls, and to promote the interest of His Kingdom. I have often said to my Friends, that I don• desire to live one Day longer in this sinful World. But I humbly beg of God (with submission to His Will,) that while I am here, I may be Serviceable, and at work for Christ. Let Him find me so doing.
Increase Mather.Boston,April 12th. 1720.Many are Called, who are not Effectually Called.SERMON I.MATTH. XXII.14.For many are Called, but few are Chosen.
_IN the beginning of this Chapter we have a Pa|rable or Similitude, uttered by the sacred Mouth of our Lord Jesus Christ, in which we have first, the thing compare•▪ namely, The Kingdom of Heave•
by which we are to understand the Visible Church, especially as unde• the Heavenly dispensation of the Gospel; the Church of God is a Heavenly Kingdom. In a Kingdom there is a King, and Laws, by which it is governed. So in the Church. Therefore Isaiah said, The Lord is our King, The Lord is our Lawgiver, He shall save us. 2dly, Here is the thing to which it is compared, name|ly, to a King making a Marriage for his Son, and inviting Guests unto the Wedding; of those that were in|vited there were some refusers, and some comers; by the refusers the Jews are meant, who refused Christ, refused to submit unto Him as King, by the comers the calling of the Gentiles is intended, and of these there are two sorts, some that came worthily, others that were unwor|thy guests, intimatin