Christ's righteousness imputed, the Saint's surest plea for eternal life, or, The glorious doctrine of free-justification, by the imputation of the pure and spotless righteousness of Jesus Christ, stated, cleared, vindicated, and made plain to the meanest capacity being the substance of several sermons, on Isaiah XLV. 24, 25 / by Michael Harrison ...


Christ's Righteousness Imputed, THE Saint's Surest PLEA FOR Eternal Life: OR, The Glorious Doctrine of Free-Justifica∣tion, by the Imputation of the Pure and Spotless Righteousness of JESUS CHRIST, Stated, Cleared, Vindica∣ted, and made Plain to the meanest Ca∣pacity. Being the Substance of Several SERMONS, On Isaiah XLV. 24, 25. By MICHAEL HARRISON, Minister at Potters-Pury, near Stony-Stratford in Northampton-shire.
LONDON, Printed for William and Joseph Marshal, and Sold by them at the Bible in Newgate-street; Price 3 d. Where you may be supplied with Caryl on Job, and Mr. Bun∣yan's Works, and most of Dr. Owen's Works; and like∣wise Lockyer's Pills rightly prepared.
〈1 page duplicate〉〈1 page duplicate〉TO THE Christian READER.THis Glorious Doctrine of Justification, which V. Chemnitius terms Arx & Propugnacu∣lum Religionis Christianae, i. e. The very Strength and Bulwark of the Christian Reli∣gion; and further calls, Articulus stantis & cadentis Ecclesiae, i. e. That Article with which the Church stands or falls, is now so furiously attacked on every side; Satan and his Instruments being so very busie to deprave it, that 'tis very necessary, that every one of Sion's Watchmen should give Notice of the Danger, and labour to fortifie himself and Flock, against the Devices of the Common Enemy: If we lose this Doctrine, we lose our Hopes of Salvation, and there∣fore all that is Valuable in Religion; we have then no Way left of approaching to God, for Pardon and Salvation; nor any right Means for comforting afflicted Consciences.
This Doctrine is the Glory of the Protestant Churches, one of the Grand Differences between them and the Romish Antichrist, the Avowed Doctrine of the Church of England, and all other Protestant Churches; and therefore we have a great Deal of Rea∣son to contend earnestly for this Doctrine, once so clearly delivered to the Saints, and afterwards sealed by the Blood of so many Martyrs.
It is now about Ten Years, since I published a small Tract upon this Subject with great Success; which was then approved to the Press, by that Reverend Man of

God, Mr. Henry Cornish now in Heaven; which thro' God's Blessing, was of Ʋse to many Souls, whose Thanks I have often received; but that Discourse being quite out of Print, and the Bookseller refusing to reprint it, but on Terms not to be admitted by me; I have therefore, here in this Discourse, set forth the same Doctrine in Substance, and almost in the same Method; but with considerable Additions, Alterations and Enlargements; which thro' God's Blessing, I hope, may yet be of further Ʋse, especially to Christians of meaner Capacities, who