Æneas his descent into Hell as it is inimitably described by the prince of poets in the sixth of his Æneis. / Made English by John Boys of Hode-Court, Esq; together with an ample and learned comment upon the same, wherein all passages criticall, mythological, philosophical and historical, are fully and clearly explained. To which are added some certain pieces relating to the publick, written by the author.


AENEAS
HIS
DESCENT
INTO
HELL:
As it is inimitly descried y the Prince of
Poets in the sixth of his AENEIS.
Mde English y JOHN BOYS of Hode-Court, Esq
Together with n mple nd lerned Comment upon the
sme, wherein ll pssges Criticll, Mythologicl, Philo∣sophicl
nd Historicl, re fully nd clerly explined.
To which re dded some certin Pieces relting to the
Pulick, written y the Author.
Invi virtuti null est vi.
—Ovid. Met.LONDON, Printed y R. Hodgkinsonne, living in Thmes
street over ginst Bnrds Cstle, 66.
TO THE
RIGHT HONOƲRABLE
Sir EDWARD HIDE, Knight,
Lord High Chncellor of
Englnd, &c.MY LORD,SHould I recount wht your
Lordship hth oth done
& suffer'd for your King, it
would not only mke our
present discourse swel e∣yond
the just proportion of n Epistle, ut
lso nticipte the pins of those more
le penns, which re design'd to write

the Story of our times, to which your pr∣ticulr
ctions will necessrily contriute
mple supply of mtter, nd in which
your single nme will (doutless) with
high honour to your self e often repe∣ted.
Tht un-envied, ecuse deserved Dignity
which your Lordship (through the grce
nd fvour of your wise nd discerning
Mster) now stnds possest of, is  cler de∣monstrtion
s well of your gret ilities,
s untinted loylty: nd from hence we
must tke the true height nd prospect of
them oth. How hppy then is the Prince
where so prudent nd trusty  Minister
hth the chief mngement of ffirs?
nd how secure the People where so expe∣rienc'd
nd wtchfull  Pilot sits t the
helm?
But, MY LORD, whilest I give your
Lordship your due Chrcter, I mke my
self guilty of  too rsh presumption, thus
to dventure to interpose etween your
Lordship nd your more weighty ffirs,
nd with  discourse of so different nd in∣feriour

 mixture, to divert your more m∣teril
nd serious Cogittions: ut gin,
when I consider tht your Lordship is the
person to whom those, who y the rigour
of the Lw re opprest, mke their ppel,
nd who, y virtue of your office, mitigte
tht summum jus, which is indeed summ in∣juri,
I then egin to resume new spirits,
nd to hope tht I shll find, y your cn∣did
cceptnce of this my Dediction, tht
you crry  constnt Chncery in your rest,
s well when out of the Court, s when
you sit in Judicture. Hd I ny thing
etter I should with ll humilty cst it t
your Lordships feet; nd did my ilities
er proportion with my desires, I should
mke you  more suitle present: ut
since tht is denied me, I ernestly eseech
you to ccept this, (such s it is) s  testi∣mony
of tht unfeigned reverence I hve
for your virtues, oth pulick nd privte,
for your ccomplishments oth Civil nd
Morl; whe