A poem on Divine revelation; being an exercise delivered at the public commencement at Nassau-Hall, September 28, 1774. / By the same person, who on a similar occasion, Sept. 25. 1771. delivered a small poem on the rising glory of America.


A POEM ON DIVINE REVELATION; BEING AN EXERCISE DELIVERED At the PUBLIC COMMENCEMENT AT NASSAU-HALL, SEPTEMBER 28. 1774.
By the same Person, who on a similar occasion, Sept. 25. 1771. delivered a small Poem on the rising Glory of America.
PHILADELPHIA: PRINTED AND SOLD BY R. AITKEN, BOOKSELLER, OPPOSITE THE LONDON-COFFEE-HOUSE, FRONT-STREET.
M.DCC.LXXIV.
PREFACE.THE Author of the following Poem, or as perhaps it may be better styled Poetical Ora|tion, may seem to have been rather unhappy in the choice of his subject, which being a good deal historical, did not admit of much poetic dress or ornament, nor gave much scope to fan|cy or imagination to exert itself, that in which the great strength of a poet lies. With respect to this he would beg leave to observe, that the subject was chosen perhaps happily enough, as the foundation of an Exercise in an institution under the patronage of gentlemen distinguished as friends to Revelation, and on an occasion when the greater number of them were convened.
In the second place it may be objected, that an imitation of the poet Milton may be traced through the whole of the performance, though the Author has not been able to attain to any thing

of the spirit of that immortal bard. To this he has only to reply, that an imitation of great originals is placed by Longinus among the sources of good writing. He therefore con|ceives himself free from censure on account of any imitation of the poet Milton, which may be seen in his performance, though he is sensible of his unhappiness in not having been able to at|tain to any degree of his excellent spirit. This however is a misfortune common to him with many honest writers, and for which he throws himself on the candour of the Public.
ARGUMENT.The introduction, complimenting the college and the assembly convened on the day of commencement.—The subject proposed.—A view of divine revelation from its earliest dawn after the fall of Adam, to its fuller splendor in the writings of the prophets.—From this source the heathen philosophers received much light and information.—Reason of itself unable to give the knowledge of the truth.—The meridian brightness of divine revelation and its general diffusion at the coming of the Saviour.—Its happy influence at that period, in banishing heathen superstition, re|straining the ferocity of war, and giving a new range to poesy and eloquence; life and immortality being brought to light.—A short hint of the first opposition to the gospel.—Darkness of Popery which came upon the west.—Mahometan delusion which about the sixth century took place in the east.—Some countries of Eu|rope emerging from Popish superstition, Bohemia, &c.—Refor|mation in England.—The light of revelation rising on America.—Rekind