An appeal to matter of fact & common sense, recommended to the serious conideration [sic] of the inhabitants of Charleston, South Carolina, &c. : To which is affixed, a letter to the **** / By John Phillips ... ; [Fourteen lines of quotations]


AN APPEAL TO MATTER OF FACT & COMMON SENSE, RECOMMENDED TO THE SERIOUS CONIDERATION OF THE Inhabitants of Charleston, South Carolina, &c. TO WHICH IS AFFIXED, A LETTER TO THE    
BY JOHN PHILLIPS,
So I returned, and considered all the oppressions that are done under the sun, and behold the tears of such as were oppressed, and they had no comforter: and on the side of their oppressors there was power, But they had no comforter.
ECCLE. Chap. iv. v. 1.Wherefore, behold I send unto you prophets and wise men.
MATT. Chap. xxiii. v. 34.Woe unto him that buildeth his house by unrighteousness—that useth his neighbour's service without wages.
JER. Chap. xxii. v. 13.And Lot said, Up, get ye out of this place:—but he seemed as one that mocked unto his sons in law.
GEN. Chap. xix. v. 14.And the smoke of their torments ascendeth up for ever and ever.
REV. Chap. xiv. v. 11.We hold these Truths to be SELF-EVIDENT: that all men are created EQUAL, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain UNALI|ENABLE RIGHTS—that among these are Life, LIBERTY, and the pursuit of Happiness.
DECLARATION OF INDEPENDANCE.New-York: PRINTED BY T. KIRK, No. 112, CHATHAM-STREET.
1798.
THE PREFATORY ADDRESS TO THE READER.FROM a deep sense of the manifold favors, and repeated blessings vouchsafed to me by Almighty God, in and through his well beloved Son Jesus Christ our Lord; and the hope of glory, which I daily experience through the Eternal Spirit, as my comforter and guide—I am induced to contri|bute all I possibly can, towards the complete destruction and final overthrow of Anti-Christ's Kingdom; the plucking out of the snare of the devil those who are taken captive by him at his will; preserving the innocent from sin, error and pol|lution; spreading the knowledge of the Lord over the whole world, and the teaching men to see what is the fellowship of the mystery—that they may know the love of God; in such a manner as to escape the pollutions, sins and follies, of this present evil world, and may be accounted worthy to stand before the Son of Man. I am aware, that reducing the above resolution to practice, will cost me my reputation, if I have any; render me obnoxious to the displeasure of luke|warm professors, and to the scoffs, taunts and menaces of the profane: but if they take the liberty to transgress the laws of God, unauthorized by him so to do, they must not be sur|prized▪ if I use the authority wherewith I am legally invest|ed by God and man, in reproving and bearing testimony against them, for their sin, 〈◊〉 and rebellion against Al|mighty God. If there be any thing laudable in sin, (as one might naturally suppose there is, it being so often committed

and so much delighted in) men ought not to be offended when they are repro