A letter from the Reverend Mr. George Whitefield, to the Reverend Mr. John Wesley, in answer to his sermon, entituled Free grace. : [Two lines from Galatians]


A LETTER From the Reverend Mr. George Whitefield, To the Reverend Mr. John Wesley, IN ANSWER To His •ERMON, Entituled Free Grace.
But when Peter was come to Antioch, I withstood him to the Face, because he was to be blamed,
Gal. ii. 11.BOSTON, Printed by G. ROGERS, for S. KNEELAND and T. GREEN in Queen-street, J. EDWARDS and S. ELIOT in Cornhill, 1740.
PREFACE.I Am very well aware what different Effects the publishing this Letter against dear Mr. Wesley's Sermon, will produce. Many of my Friends who are strenuous Advocates for Universal Redemp|tion, will be immediately offended. Many that are zealous on the other Side, will much rejoice. Those that are lukewarm on both Sides, and are carried away with carnal Reasoning, will wish this Matter had ne|ver been brought under Debate. The Reasons I have given at the beginning of the Letter, I think, are sufficient to satisfy all. I desire therefore that those who h•ld Election, wou'd not triumph or make a Party on the one Hand: (For I detest any such Thing) And that those who are prejudiced against that Doc|trine, would not be too much concerned or offended on the other. Known unto GOD are all his Ways from the beginning of the World. The great Day will discover why the LORD permits dear Mr. Wesley and me, to be of a different Way of Think|ing. And I cannot express my self better in respect to this, than in the Words of a Letter which I lately received from his own dear Hands.
London,Aug. 9. 1740.My dear Brother!I Thank you for yours, May 24. The Case is quite plain—There are Biggots both for PREDESTINATION and against it. GOD is sending a Message to those on either Side: But neither will receive it, unless from one who is of their own Opinion—Therefore for a Time you are suffered to be of one Opinion, and I of ano|ther—But when his Time is come, GOD will do what Man cannot, namely, make us both of one Mind. Then Persecution will flame out; and it will be seen whether we count our Lives dear unto our selves, so that we may finish our Course with Joy.
I am, my dearest Brother, Ever Yours, J. Wesley.Thus, (my honoured Friend!) I heartily pray GOD to hasten the Time of our Union in Principle as well as in Heart! And then I care not if I go with him to Prison or to Death. With Paul and Silas, I hope we shall sing Praises to GOD, and count it our highest Honour to suffer for CHRIST's Sake, and lay down our Live• for the Brethren.
Bethesda in Georgia,Dec. 24. 1740.Rev. and very dear Brother!GOD only knows what unspeakable Sor|row of Heart I have felt on your Account ever since I left England last.—Whither it be my Infirmity or not, I frankly confess that never did Jonah go with more Reluctance against Ninevah, than I now take Pen in Hand to write against you.—Was Nature to speak, I had rather die than do it: and yet if I am faithful to GOD, and to my