Speculum perspicuum uranicum, or, A glasse wherein you may behold the revolution of the year of our Lord Jesus Christ MDCLIII being the first after bissextile, or leap-year ... : calculated for the meridian of London ... / by Tho. Jackson, mathematician.


Speculum Perspicuum Ʋranicum: OR A GLASSE Wherein you may behold The Revolution of the YEAR of our LORD CHRIST, M.DX LIII.
Being the first after Bissextile or Leap-year.
SHEWING All the notable Aspects of the PLANETS with the MOON, and among themselves.
With the true place of the Sun & Moon, In Signes, Degrees and Minutes, For every DAY in the YEAR: And true place of the other Planets every Fift day.
Unto which are added some Astrological Predictions gathered from the Quarterly REVOLUTIONS of this year, 1653▪
Calculated for the Meridian of LONDON Differs from the Meridian of Litterworth 4 Minutes: Whose Pole-artick is elevated above the Horizon 51 degrees 32 minutes North latitude.
By THO. JACKSON Mathemat.
London, Printed by E. Cotes, for the Company of STATIONERS, 1653.
Vulgar notes according to the Julian account used here in England for this year 1653.The Golden Number 1The Dominical Letter BThe Circle of the Sun 10The Roman Indiction 6The Number of Direction 20The Epact 11Shrove SundayFebruary20SeptuagesimaFebr.6SexagesimaFebr.13QuinquagesimaFebr.20QuadragesimaFebr.27Easter dayAprill.10Rogation SundayMay15Ascension dayMay19WhitsundayMay29Trinity SundayJun.5Advent SundayNovemb.27
〈◊〉 Term beginneth the 24 day of January, and endeth the 12 day of February.
Easter Term beginneth the 27 of Aprill, and endeth the 23 day of May.
Trinity Term beginneth the 5 of June, and endeth the 29 day.
Michaelmas Term beginneth the 24 day of October, and endeth the 28 day of November.
The names and Characters of the 12 Signs of the Zodiack, with a description of what part, or member of the body each Sign governeth.♈ Aries, Head and Face.♉ Taurus, Neck and throat.♊ Gemini, Armes & Shoul.♋ Cancer, Brest & Stomach.♌ Leo, Heart and Back.♍ Virgo, Bowels and Belly.♎ Libra, Reins and Loines.♏ Scorpio, Secret Members.♐ Sagittarius, Thighs.♑ Capricornus, Knees.♒ Aquarius, Legs.♓ Pisces, Feet.Names and Characters of the 7 Planets, with the Head and Tail of the Dragon.♄ Saturne.♃ Jupiter.♂ Mars.☉ Sol.♀ Venus.☿ Mercury.☽ Luna.☊ Dragons Head.☋ Dragons Tail.A Table of the Aspects. s.d. ☌ Conjunction00Novilunium.SS Semisextile10 ✶ Sextile20Corniculata.Q Quintile212 □ Quartile30Semiplena.Td Tridecile318 △ Trine40Gibbosa.Bq Biquintile424 ☍ Opposition60Plenilunium.
A brief description of the particular things contained in this Almanack examplary.IN this Almanack, the twelve moneths are contained in 12 pages, each page is divided into 8 Columnes.
In the First is placed the dayes of the moneth. The se∣cond, the dayes of the week. The third containeth the fixed and movable spheares: the beginnings and endings of the Termes: the Aspects of the Planets with the Moon, and mutually with themselves and the Moon in her Apogaeon Perigae