A history of the work of redemption. Containing the outlines of a body of divinity, in a method entirely new. / By the late Reverend Mr. Jonathan Edwards, president of the College of New Jersey[.]


A HISTORY Of the WORK of REDEMPTION.
CONTAINING, The Outlines of a Body of Divinity, In a Method entirely new.
By the late REVEREND Mr. JONATHAN EDWARDS, President of the College of New Jersey
EDINBURGH PRINTED: BOSTON: Re-printed by DRAPER & FOLSOM, near the Market.
M.DCCLXXXII.
PREFACE.IT has long been desired by the friends of Mr. Edwards, that a number of his manuscripts should be published; but the disadvantage under which all posthumous publications must necessarily appear, and the difficulty of getting any considerable work printed in this infant country, hi|therto have proved sufficient obstacles to the execution of such a proposal. The first of these obstacles made me doubt, for a considerable time after these manuscripts came into my hands, whether I could con|sistently with that regard which I owe to the honor of so worthy a parent, suffer any of them to appear in the world. However being diffident of my own sentiments, and doubtful whether I were not over-jealous in this matter, I determined to submit to the opinion of gentlemen, who are friends both to the character of Mr. Edwards and to the cause of truth. The consequence was, that they gave their advice for publishing them.
The other obstacle was removed by a gentleman in the church of Scotland, who was formerly a correspondent of Mr. Edwards. He engaged a bookseller to undertake the work, and also signified his desire that these following d•scourses in 〈◊〉 migh• be made public.
Mr. Edwards had planned a body of di|vinity, in a new method, and in the form of a history; in whch he was first to show, how the most remarkable events, in all ages from the fall to the present times, re|corded in sacred and profane history, were adapted to promote the work of redemp|tion; and then to trace, by the light of scripture-prophecy, how the same work should be yet further carried on even to the end of the world. His heart was so much set on executing this plan, that he was considerably averse to accept the pre|sidentship of Prince-town college, lest the duties of that office should put it out of his power.
The out lines of that work are now offered to the public, as contained in a se|ries of sermons, preached at Northampton in 1739 , without any view to publicati|on. On that account, the reader cannot reasonably expect all that from them, which he might justly have expected, had they been written with such a view, and prepa|red by the Authors own hand for the press.
As to elegance of composition, which is now esteemed so essential to all publicati|ons, it is well known, that the author did not make that his chief study. However,

his other writings, though destitute of the ornaments of fine language, have it seems that solid merit, which has procured both to themselves and to him a considerable re|pu