Christian instruction directing to a more perfect and saving knowledge of God, in the foundation-principles of true religion. By way of question and answer. Meet to be seriously considered by all true Christians, for their help and furtherance in the great concerns of eternal life. By W.S.


Christian Instruction: DIRECTING TO A more perfect and saving KNOW∣LEDGE of GOD, in the Foun∣dation Principles of True RELIGION. By way of Question and Answer. Meet to be seriously considered by all true Christians, for their help and furtherance in the great Concerns of Eternal Life.
By W. S.
And this is Life Eternal, that they might know Thee the only True GOD, and Jesus Christ whom thou hast sent.
John 17.3.LONDON, Printed for Francis Smith, at the Elephant and Castle without Temple-Bar.
TO THE READER.Courteous Reader,I Desire thee to take know∣ledge, that this little follow∣ing Treatise is not intended only, nor chiefly for young Christians, but especially for such grow∣ing Plants, as its to be hoped may be helped thereby, to become so much the sooner ripe and ready for service to the Church of God. The Texts I point to for proof of these Doctrines, I neither repeat nor argue; partly, because I would not make my Book great, that the
price might be small; and partly because I would have thee to exercise thy study: but if thou meetest with any knot in the reading of my Book, too hard for thee to unty, if thou please to use my help, I doubt not through the grace of God, but I shall be able to help thee therein.
And for any Brethren that shall read my Book, and upon the best considerati∣on of it, shall in any material point or points, be found contrary to me in Judg∣ment, I should rejoyce to see such a frame of Spirit in them, as to write me the rea∣sons of their dissent: I should comforta∣bly hope this course in some short time would, through the blessing of God, gra∣ciously tend to bring us to Unity in the Truth; Thus desiring thee to read seri∣ously the ensuing Discourse, I heartily bid thee farewel, and rest,
Thine in any service for Christ, W. SELLERS.Christian Instruction: Directing to a more perfect and saving Knowledge of GOD, in the Foundation-Principles of true Religion.Question.
WHat are we to judge of God? is there one or more?
Answ. There is but one God, the Father; of whom are all things; Deut. 4.35. & 6.4.
Qu. How must we understand and judge of him?
Ans. He is not only the Author of all Beings, but also the Fountain of all Good; 2 Cor. 1.3. Ephes. 4.6. Jam. 1.17. And all his Wayes, which contain both his Decrees or Purposes, and his Works, are all like himself, very good; Gen. 1.31. Jam. 1.13, 17. Psal. 33.4, 5.
Q. But how can it be clearly proved that there is a God beyond doubt?
A. The Works of God make it evident; Rom. 1.19, 20. Psal. 19.1. See more of this in my Book, called A Preservative from Atheism and Error.
Q. But if God did make all things very good, how came Mankind so very bad?
A. By breaking the Law and Covenant of God.
Q. Is the