King Richard the Third revived. Containing a memorable petition and declaration contrived by himself and his instruments, whiles Protector, in the name of the three estates of England, to importune and perswade him to accept of the kingship, and crown of England, by their joynt election, (as if he were unwilling to undertake, or accept, though he most ambitiously aspired after them, by the bloudy murthers of K. Henry 6. Edward 5. and sundry others) before his coronation; presented afterwards to, and confirmed by the three estates and himself, in his first Parliament, to give him a colourable title both by inheritance, and their election to the crown. Transcribed out of the Parliament roll of 1.R.3. (printed in Speeds History of Great Britain: where his other additionall policies to engage the City of London, lawyers, divines and people, to elect, and make him their king, are at large recorded.)


KING
Richard the Third
REVIVED. Containing
A Memorable Petition and Declaration contrived by him∣self
and his Instruments, whiles Protector, in the name
of the three Estates of England, to importune and
perswade him to accept of the Kingship, and Crown of
England, by their joynt Election, (as if he were unwil∣ling
to undertake, or accept, though he most ambiti∣ously
aspired after them, by the bloudy murthers of
K. Henry 6. Edward 5. and sundry others) before his
Coronation; presented afterwards to, and confirmed
by the three Estates and himself, in his first Parliament,
to give him a colourable Title both by Inheritance,
and their Election to the Crown. Transcribed out of the
Parliament Roll of 1. R. 3. (printed in Speeds History
of Great Britain: where his other Additionall Poli∣cies
to engage the City of London, Lawyers, Divines and
People, to elect, and make him their King, are at large
recorded.)
Eccles. 3. 15.That which hath been, is now, and that
which is to be, hath already been: and God requireth that
which is driven away.1 Sam. 12. 17, 19.The Lord shall send thunder and
rain, that ye may perceive and see, that your wickednesse is
great which ye have done in the sight of the Lord, in asking
you a King. And all the people said unto Samuel, Pray for
thy servants unto the Lord thy God, that we die not; for we
have added unto all our sins, this evil, to ask us a King.LONDON,
Printed for William Leak, at the Crown in Fleetstreet,
betwixt the two Temple-Gates. 1657.
In Rotulo Parliamenti tenti apud Westm. die
Veneris vicessimo tertio die Januarii, Anno
regni Regis Richardi Tertii primo, inter a∣lia
continentur ut sequitur.Memorand. quod quaedam Billa exhibita fuit co∣ram
Domino Rege in Parliamento praedicto in
haec verba.WHereas late heretofore, that is to say, be∣fore
the Consecration, Coronation, and
Inthronization of our Soveraign Lord
King Richard the Third, a roll of Parch∣ment
containing in writing certain Ar∣ticles
of the tenor underwriten, on the behalf, and in the
name of the three Estates of this Realm of England, that
is to say, of the Lords