The nature of saving conversion, and the way wherein it is wrought. By the Rev'd. learned, and eminently pious, Mr. Solomon Stoddard of Northampton, New-England, first published A.D. 1719.


The Nature of Saving Conver+sion, and the Way wherein it is Wrought.
By the Rev'd. Learned, and emi|nently Pious, Mr. SOLOMON STODDARD of NORTHAMPTON, New-England, First Published A. D. 1719. And now a Second-Edition, with a PREFACE.
BOSTON: Printed for and Sold by Edmund Sawyer, at his House in Newbury.
PREFACE.THE Subject matter of this little tract, are confessedly momentous and ve|ry interesting. Some things in it, we must acknowledge, are but little esteemed in this degenerate age; and some things are ex|ploded by several late writers in Divinity. But Mr. Stoddard was so well known, as a wise, judicious and very successful mini|ster in his life time, that his praise was in all the churches of New-England. And several of his printed pieces, particularly his safety of appearing in the righteousness of Christ, and the following Tract have been found so very servicable to souls, in times when God has remarkably poured out his spirit, that God thereby has manifestly declared his approbation of them. Ma|ny serious christians have often requested that this should have a second impression. And considering how well it is adapted to the lowest capacity, and how entertaining and instructive it may be to the more ca|pacious, it has been thought proper to re|publish it. And now, a well-wisher to the souls of men, and a Minister of JESUS CHRIST, does earnestly recommend it to

Ministers and People, high and low, as one of the most familiar and useful pieces extent; and prays the Lord to send a blessing with it to every serious reader.
May 23d 1770.THE Nature of Saving CONVERSION, AND THE Way wherein it is wrought.CHAP. I. Saving Conversion is wrought at once._PEOPLE are said in Scripture to be converted, when they are turned from Heathenism to the Profession of the Truth; so they are said to be turned when there is some notable Refor|mation made among them. But then Persons are said to be savingly converted, when they are turned from the power of Satan unto God; when they have a work of Regeneration wro't in them; when they are made holy, and so are justified and made heirs of the Kingdom of Heaven; and this change is made at once in the Soul; it is wrought in the twinkling of an eye There is wont ordinarily to be a great deal of time spent in way of Preparation for this change: In order to this change there

is wont to be a work of Contrition and Humi|liation; and tho' in the primitive times we read of men passing through the work in a very little time, yet ordinarily we find that much time is consumed in the work of Preparation: There be many temptations to be overcome, flatteries and discouragements to be removed; men lose a great deal of time by falling into slumbers, by backwardness to reform some evils, by try|ing to establish their own righteousness by fear|ing