The church triumphant, or, A comfortable treatise of the amplitude and largeness of the kingdom of Christ wherein is proved by Scriptures and reason, that the number of the damned is inferiour to that of the elect / by Joseph Alford ...


THE CHURCH Triumphant.
OR, A Comfortable Treatise, of the Amplitude and Large∣ness of the Kingdom of CHRIST; Wherein is proved, by Scriptures and Reason, That the number of the Damned is inferiour to that of the Elect.
Nè Redarguas ea falsitatis de quorum contrariis non est demonstratio. Rabbi Mos.By JOSEPH ALFORD, M. A. sometime of Oriell Col∣ledge in Oxford.
Exercere nos Deus vult diffi•ultate Quaestionis,
Non decipere falsitate sententiae. Augustin.
Printed by W. Bentley, for J. William• at the Crown in S. Pauls Church-yard. Anno Domini 1649.
〈…〉with that usefull observation of Irenaeus: who speaking of Pro∣phecies, and some other abstruse points in Religion saith, Ante∣quam effectum habent aenigma∣ta sunt, & ambiguitates homi∣nibus; they are clouds in the eyes, and riddles in the understandings of men, until they be explained. I humbly intreat you therefore to accept my indeavours, and to su∣spend your judgement till you have weighed the Reasons on both sides. Let not the seeming novel∣ty of the opinion retard your en∣quiry, for although Truth be the daughter of the most High, and therefore there can be no new Truth: yet many Errours are an∣cient, embraced, reverenced un∣sifted and uncontroverted, meerly in regard of their Antiquity: when
 notwithstanding some doctrines of great consolation may languish and be suppressed under those er∣rours. The treasures of Divine knowledge are inexhaustible, and to the dissolution of the World, the Oracles of God will suppeditate new matter, wherewith to recreate a holy diligence, to confirm a doubting spirit, and to confound a sawcy curiosity. If I have deli∣vered a truth unto the world, which hath lien as an Embrion buried in the womb of errour, it is a wealthy blessing upon my poor endeavours. If I doe hallucinate in the prosecution of it, I am wil∣ling to be confuted without obsti∣nacy. I am not less desirous to de∣molish an errour, than I am sol∣licitous to hearken to a corrected judgement. Sir, I wish you feli∣cities
 both temporal and eternal, that when you have finished the progress of faith and hope, you may be translated into this Church Triumphant together, Sir, with
Your most devoted servant JOS. ALFORD.OF THE LARGENESSE OF THE Church Triumphant.IN the Misteries of Theolo∣gy some questions are not yet un-muffled from their obscurity: This Doctrine concerning the Paucity or Multitude of the Elect, fruit∣ful of consolation, and conducible to the knowledge of God, hath seemed not one∣ly difficult, but inexplicable. The opinion of the Learned asserting the Paucity, hath augmented the Difficulty, as if the bare au∣thority of men were sufficient to prevail with after Ages without the concurrence of their reasons. It hath been inveloped with obscurity, by a surmize,