Something in answer to Lodowick Muggleton's book, which he calls The Quaker's neck broken wherein, in judging others he hath judged himself ... also something in answer to Thomas Fuller in his Church-history, to that which he writes to Barron Brooke wherein he rayles against the Quakers : and something in answer to Samuel Clarke, who calls himself a pastor in his book called A looking-glass for saints and sinners / by G.F.



Something in ANSWER TO Lodowick Muggleton's BOOK, Which he calls, The Quakers Neck Broken.
Wherein, in Judging others he hath Judged himself; and wherein he hath Cursed others and Called them, The Seed of the Serpent, he hath Cursed himself, and proved himself to be the same; and manifested himself to be of the Spirit of Error, and a false Prophet, and a false Witness and a Satans Messenger, ha∣ving his Commission from him, as by his lies which comes from him doth clearly make manifest out of his own mouth, and he to have Satans Sword, and not Christ's, with which he smites the Righteous, and so hath Broke and cut off his own Neck with it.
ALSO Something in Answer to Thomas Fuller, in his Church-History, to that which he writes to Barron Brook, wherein he Rayles against the Quakers.
AND, Somthing in Answer to Samuel Clarke, who calls himself a Pastor, in his Book called, A Looking-Glass for Saints and Sinners.
By G. F.
London, Printed in the Year, 1667.







Something in ANSWER TO Lodowick Muggleton's BOOK, Which he calls, The Quakers Neck Broken, &c.Muggleton, THou saist, That Quakers will not bestow a penny in any Writing but their own (in the 82 page of thy Book) let it cost them ne∣ver so much pains in Writing, and charge in Printing.
Answ. This is a Lye known to the Printers and Station∣ners, and that thou hast manifested a lying Spirit, for the Stationers and Booksellers at London in this know thy Spirit to be a Lying Spi∣rit; for there are few Quakers in England, but they have bought Bookes that were not of their own Printing; and therefore what fruits can be lookt for from a lying Spirit, but Cursings and a lying Commission; for he that will lye in one thing will lye in another: But doth not Muggleton grumble because he hath not Money for his Lyes and Curses of the Quakers?
Maggleton saith, It is a vain thing to talk of heavenly Secrets to the Quakers, for they will not bestow a penny of them, &c.
Answ. This is another Lye; for heavenly things are esteemed of, by us, which thou (that art one of the Scorners) callest Quakers; but, it seems Muggletons heavenly Secrets (as thou callest them) are Money-worth, and may be bought with a price, and he is trou∣bled because he cannot get a price for them, it seems; and this shews an earthly Spirit, wherewith he Blasphemes and Curses so much: And the Quakers (as thou callest them) they are free with their Books to give them to any one to Read, but it is a hard thing to get any of thy Books, for several of Friends have gone to thy Disciples to have gotten one of them, and thy