A narrative of a new and unusual American imprisonment of two Presbyterian ministers: and prosecution of Mr. Francis Makemie one of them, for preaching one sermon at the city of New-York. By a learner of law, and lover of liberty.


A NARRATIVE Of a New and Unusual AMERICAN Imprisonment Of Two PRESBYTERIAN MINISTERS: And Prosecution of Mr. Francis Makemie One of them, for Preaching one SERMON at the City of NEW-YORK.
By a Learner of Law and Lover of Liberty.
Printed for the Publisher. 1707.
An Epistle to the READER.Ingenuous Reader,YOU have here a Specimen of the Cloggs & Fetters with which the Liberty of Dissenters are intangled at New-York and Jersey Governments beyond any places in Her Majesties Dominions; And when the Conditions, and Impositions required, are as heavy, and uneasy to be bore; and as great a Scruple of Conscience, as the grounds of their Separation and Dis|sent, it is next to no Liberty at all.
And what the Consequences of such practices, if persisted in, will prove to such a Place, where Dissenters are above twenty to one, for one Church-man, and where men and money are so much wanting, for the defence of New-York, both by Sea and Land, which not many years, (by demands of men and money from the Neighbouring Colo|nies on the Continent) was represented, as their only Barrier and Frontier, I leave to thinking men, and considering Politicians to an|swer; besides the difficulties and discouragements laid in the way of such as would Import themselves, and the ready and shortest way to promote Deserters from those Provinces.
I cannot omit a true, and strange Story, I lately heard of, that during the Imprisonment of these two Gentlemen, either to find out a Crime, none being specifyed in the Mittimus, or to aggavate their imaginary fault: An Order was given to Major Sandford of East-Jersey, to put sun|dry persons upon Examination, and their Oaths, to discover what Dis|course they had with sundry of their friends, at the House of Mr. Jasper Crane in New-York-Town in East-Jersey, where Mr. Samuel Melyen, Mr. Crane•nd another, gave their Depositions before Major Sandford, but found nothing to their purpose: Tho the practice is not to be out|done, yea, scarce paralelled by Spanish Inquisition; for no men are safe in their most private Conversations, if most intimate Friends can be compelled upon Oath, to betray one anothers Secrets. If this is agrea|ble

to English Constitution and Priviledges, I confess, we have been hi|therto in the Dark.
Preaching in a Private House was a Crime, and Preaching since, after being declared Not Guilty by a Legal Tryal, in a Publick Church, allowed by Law to the •rench, is since resented as a greater, by that Unchristian Clamour, made soon after, by some High-flown Spa••• pretended Sons of the Church, who with a great deal of unbounded fury declared, If such things were allowed, their Church was ruined: Which is a language of the same nature of those High-Flyers in England, who were declared by a Vote of t