The cynosura, or, A saving star that leads to eternity discovered amidst the celestial orbs of David's Psalms, by way of paraphrase upon the Miserere.


THE CYNOSURA, Or a SAVING STAR That leads to ETERNITY. Discovered amidst the Celestial Orbs of DAVID'S PSALMS By way of Paraphrase upon the MISERERE.

Humanum est errare;
Divinum quid emendare.

To do amiss is incident to humane Nature;
To repair our failings something Divine.
Si non traheris, ora ut traharis.
If you be not moved to repentance, pray you may be moved,
St. Aug.LONDON, Printed by I. Redmayne for Thomas Rooks, at the Lamb and Ink-bottle, at the Entrance into Gresham Colledge, next Bishops-gate-street. 1670.
To the Right Honorable and Illustrious Lady ANNE Countess of SHREWSBURY.MADAM,IT is the great Voice of the Church taught by her Heavenly Espouse, that according to the ordinary course set down by his Providence, none arrived to the knowledge of good and evil, can reach their Beatitude; but by the wings of Pennance. 'Tis a Decree passed immediately after our First Pa∣rents transgression, that he should not eat his Bread, but at the rate of sweaty Browes: And though God seems to dispense in this severe Sentence in the old Law, promising to the exact observers of it, long life, abundance of wealth, a plen∣tiful posterity, and the like: Yet this was done (as he will leave no vertue unrewarded) in regard that Hea∣vens Gates were then shut up: But when Christ had cleared their passage unto Eternal felicity, and clapt the Thorns (which were the fruit of our sins) upon his own Head, then they recovered so high a Being, and grew to that value, as the heavier God layes his Hand upon us, the more his love appears: So that now the
mark of our happiness is the Son of God not glorify∣ed, but scourged, spit upon, crowned with Thorns, torn with Whipps, and nailed to the Cross.
Hence it is we find our sweet Redeemer born in Tears, bred up in obscurity, and concluding the upshot of his life with all the circumstances of infamy and pain; at the opening of his grand commission to preach unto the World, his first Exordium was an exhortation unto pennance, as if it were the sole Loadstone to draw Heaven towards us: And St. Paul his great Disciple declares it; nay he makes no exception, that all those who would be happy must crucify their flesh with their vices.
Thus you see, Madam, that every Hand, whe∣ther innocent or guilty, whether noble or vulgar, ought to be stretched forth to sow the bitter Seed of pennance: If we have sucked in vertue even with our Milk, and thrived with a daily encrease in the sequel of our life, yet we ought not (sayes St. Austin) descend into the Tomb but by the way of pennance: Again if we have com∣plyed with the Frailties of our corrupt nature, and tres∣passed against the duty we owe to our good God, pen∣nance likewise must be our Sanctuary: So that pen∣nance is furnished with two Wings to bear us up to Heaven; the one is fashioned out by love, which prompts us to become by