A sermon preached on the occasion of a funeral at Gabuly in Ireland by a Dominican fryer.


A SERMON, Preached on the occasion of A FUNERAL At Gabuly in Ireland.By a Dominican Fryer.JOB X. v. x.Thou hast poured out like Milk, and crudled me as Cheese.
BEloved, you see here what Job says of him∣self, yea Job, that holy Man; he compa∣red himself to Cheese, yes, he doth you Sirs, he doth to Cheese like Cheese, Thou hast curdled me or framed me. You know beloved, there are several sorts of Cheese, and several ways of making Cheese, which you, and you, and you understand.

Like Cheese, yea, I say, like Cheese. You know when Cheese is first made, they take their Milk and let it stand till there come Cream upon it; if this Cream be not put into a clean Vessel, or if Dust fall into it, or if not handled with clean Hands, it will be bad Cheese, and stinking Cheese. The tryal of good Cheese is by tosting; if you put a piece of Cheese to the Fire, and if it does not drop, you, and you, and you, will say, 'tis bad hungry Cheese, and you will not care to eat it; no, no; but if it drop 'tis a sign't was made by a good Huswife.
Thou hast crudled me like Cheese. The Soul of Man is Cheese, be it good or bad: Yea, yea, hearken to this, by good trout, if we believe Augustine or St. Ambrose too; and if ever the Soul hath Works in it, then it is like good Cheese, and will, and will drop at the Fire of Persecution; it will not burn or stink as that old Rogues Soul, and that old Hogs Soul, that is there, and there, and there.
Thou hast crudled me like Cheese. You see what Job says is true; for he was good Cheese when all the De∣vils in Hell did bark at him and surrounded him, and that where his Wife tempted him, and I believe she was handsom too, yet notwithstanding them and hur, she was still good Cheese; He was no dry nor lean Cheese, for he dropt, yea, and had Grace in him too; but shew me a Man here that is such Cheese as he was, any of you all: I desire you, I desire you, St. Jerome, St. Thomas of Acquitaine, St. Dominick, St. Francis; those were brave Men, not like you a pack of Rogues.
Thou hast formed me like Cheese; but hold, I say, I knew nothing of my preaching on this occasion till

last night, and so having not timely notice, am forc'd to speak less methodical, then otherwise I should have done. But let me tell you in short, the fire of Hell, is already burning for you if you do not have a care and make your selves good Cheese, that hath Fat and Moisture in it; if you do not, the Devil take you all for Knaves and Rogues; and if you do not, you shall never go to Purgatory, no by God, you shall not; and what will you do then?
Thou hast crudled me like Cheese. Last Sunday was St. Th— Day, a day that many Souls went ••t of Purgatory, a day that the Gates of Heaven was opened, a day that such Villains as you might have •hook off the Chain of your Sin, if you had truly prayed to St. Francis, and freely given your Alms and Charity. But hold, hold I say, instead o