The harmonie of the church Containing, the spirituall songes and holy hymnes, of godly men, patriarkes and prophetes: all, sweetly sounding, to the praise and glory of the highest. Now (newlie) reduced into sundrie kinds of English meeter: meete to be read or sung, for the solace and comfort of the godly. By M.D.


THE HARMONIE of the Church.
Containing, The Spirituall Songes and holy Hymnes, of godly men, Patriarkes and Prophetes: all, sweetly sounding, to the praise and glory of the highest.
Now (newlie) reduced into sundrie kinds of English Meeter: meete to be read or sung, for the solace and comfort of the godly.
By M. D.
LONDON. Printed by Richard Ihones, at the Rose and Crowne, neere Holborne Bridge. 1591.
To the Godly and vertuous Lady, the Lady Iane Deuoreux, of Meriuale.GOod Madame, oft imagining with my selfe howe to manifest my well mea∣ning vnto your Ladishippe, and in my loue towardes you, most vnwil∣ling to bee founde ingratefull, either in the behalfe of my Countrie or the place of my byrth: To the one, your godlie life beeing a presi∣dent of perfect vertue: to the other, your bountifull hos∣pitalitie an exceeding releefe.
Then (good Ladie) my selfe, as an admyrer of your manie vertues, and a well-wisher vnto your hap∣pie and desired estate, doo here present the fruites of my labours vnto your modest and discreet considera∣tion, hoping that you will measure them, not by my a∣bilitie, but by their authoritie: not as Poems of Poets, but praiers of Prophets: and vouchsafe to be their graci∣ous Patronesse against any gracelesse Parasite: And en∣deuour your selfe with this good Debora, Hester and Iudith, (whose songes of praise I here present to your Ladiship) to the aduancing of Gods glorie, and the beau¦tifieng of his Church. Thus committing your Ladiship and all your actions to the protection of the Almighty, and my short translation to your curteous censure, I humbly take my leaue. London, this 10. of Feb. 1590·
Your Ladiships to commaund, in all dutifull seruices. Michaell Drayton.To the curteous Reader.GEntle Reader, my meaning is not with the varie∣tie of verse to feede any vaine humour, neither to trouble thee with deuises of mine owne inuention, as carieng an ouerweening of mine owne wit: but here I present thee with these Psalmes or Songes of praise, so exactly translated as the prose would permit, or sence would any way suffer me: which (if thou shalt be the same in hart thou art in name, I mean a Christian) I doubt not, but thou wilt take as great delight in these, as in any Poetical fiction. I speak not of Mars, the god of Wars, nor of Venus, the goddesse of loue, but of the Lord of Hostes, that made heauen and earth: Not of Toyes in Mount Ida, but of triumphes in Mount Sion: Not of Vanitie, but of Veritie: not of Tales, but of Truethes.
Thus submitting my selfe vnto thy clemencie, and my labours vnto thy indifferencie, I wish thee as my selfe.
Thine, as his owne. M. D.The Spirituall Songes and holy Hymnes, contained in thi