A lytle treatise after the maner of an epystle wryten by the famous clerk Doctor Vrbanus Regius, vnto a specyall frynde of hys wherin he declareth the cause of the great co[n]trouersy that hath bene [and] is yet at this day in the chrysten relygyon and also the dyuersyte betwene the ryght worshyppyng [and] seruice of God and the ceremonis inuented by mannis institucion, very fruteful and profytable.


A lytle treati∣se after the maner of an Epystle Wryten by the famous clerk Doctor vrba∣nus Regius, vnto a specyall frynde of hys, wherin he declareth the cause of the great cō∣trouersy that hath bene & is yet at this day in the chrysten relygyon and also the dyuer¦syte betwene the ryght worshyppyng & ser∣uice of God and the ceremonis inuented by mannis institucion, very fruteful and profy¦table.
Iohn .x. Ezech .xxxiiij. Mich .v.I am the good shepehearde. A good shepehearde ge∣ueth his lyfe for the shype.
 [illustration]  [scene from John 10:13] HANS HOLBEIN
The hyred seruaunt flyeth, because he is an hered seruaunt and careth not for the shepe.
The Epistell of doctor Vrbanus Regius.IT is no maruaile that ma∣ny good vertuous person∣nes at this tyme are trou∣bled wythin them selues not knowinge howe to or∣der them selues for to come to goodnes, because that there are so fewe faythfull shepeheardes and Preachers, that can teache the ryght waye to ryghteousnes and saluacion, and in the meane whyle men crye on both sydes, that men do er∣re greuously. By the reason wherof the poore symple man knoweth not, whiche syde he may take, and which he ought to forsake wherfore I wyll here exhybyte my poore seruice vnto youre wysdome, & by the grace of God geue you a shorte instructiō, howe the matter of the Chri∣sten relygyon at this tyme standeth.
Fyrst is to be noted, that in the chur∣che from the Apostles tyme, vnto thys daye, it stode neuer so well in the church, that there was no parcyalyte and con∣trouersie for the doctrynes sake. Ther∣fore nowe to be brefe, all varyaunce and

controuersie ryseth vpon this question, howe men shall be made righteous, and which is the ryght waye to God?
Secondely, here hath been alwayes controuersye and variaunce, yea euen in the Apostles dayes, as ye maye reade. The one wyll be made ryghteous and quite from synne, and obtayne a mercy∣full God by this maner, the other by yt maner, wherfore it can not be denyed but that the one must nedes erre, here ry¦seth then variaunce and controuersye, for the wicked enemie, is an enemy to ye true doctryne, and to the catolyke fayth, because yt men through ye true doctryne & fayth are made ryghteous, and by the sa¦me escape from the power of the wicked enemy, and are saued. Therfore doth he rayse & styrre vp errours, for to strēgh∣ten his kingedome.
Thyrdely, here haue alwayes ben two partes, the one parte hath sought to be iustyfyed and saued by certayne meanes, which coulde not helpe them to ryghteousnes, as the Iewes, which wol¦de be saued and delyuered from their sin¦nes by the corpo