The remonstrance of the Commissioners of the General Assembly to the Convention of Estates at Edinburgh, June, 1643


THE REMONSTRANCE OF THE COMMISSIONERS OF THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY.
To the CONVENTION of ESTATES, At Edinburgh June 1643.
EDINBURGH, Printed by Evan Tyler Printer to the Kings most excellent Majestie.
ANNO 1643.
At Edinburgh the 27. of June. 1643.THe Estates of this Kingdome pre∣sently conveened, having read and considered the Remonstrance given in to them by the Commissioners from the Ge∣nerall Assembly, As they do returne heartie thanks to the Commissioners of the Assembly for their timous advertise∣ment in matters of so great importance. So to the effect the same may be the better made known to all the members of this Convention, and they thereby more en∣abled to give their resolutions therein, Ordains the same to be forthwith printed, and that thir presents be Warrant for that effect.
Arch. Primerose, Cler. Conven.To the right Honourable, the Noble∣men, the Commissioners of Shires and Burrowes, assembled in the Convention of Estates at E∣dinburgh, June 22. 1643. years, The humble remon∣strance and desires of the Commissioners of the Gene∣rall Assembly.ACcording to the trust committed unto us by the Generall Assembly in this time of so many difficulties, and so great danger to Religion and Peace, which have exercised us this time past, and doe still more and more presse us above measure, We have given warning to the whole Ministrie, how to acquit themselves against all sorts of Enemies to Religion and Peace: We have also by petition made our humble addresse to the Kings most excellent Majestie, for remedying the present e∣vils, and preventing the like in time coming; Wherein we have had the happinesse to be countenanced and assisted by the Lords of His Majesties honourable pri∣vie Councell, and the Commissioners for conserving the Peace: But to our great grief have not found the successe answerable to Our Endeavours and Expecta∣tion; which is also resented in a late Declaration by
the Lords of His Majesties privie Councell, and the Commissioners for conserving the Peace, and is now universally known to this whole kirk and kingdome: And therefore having the opportunitie of this Honou∣rable Convention, representing the whole body of the Kingdome, (wherein we humbly acknowledge the wise, timous and mercifull providence of God) we finde our selves bound, both as the faithfull Ministers of Christ, and watchmen unto the house of Israel, and as Commissioners of the Assembly, set after a speciall manner upon the watch-tower at this time, to give warning from God of the present dangers, and with all earnestnesse in the name of God, to intreat your Lordships for a speedy remedie.
We need not make any Remonstrance to your Lord∣ships of Romish Heresies, Superstition, Usurpation and Tyranny; nor of the inestimable benefit of the Re∣formation of Religion, which next unto the first plan∣ting of Christian Religion it self, is the greatest mercy tha