A golden keye opening the locke to eternall happines. Containing seuen most sweete and comfortable directions to a Christian life. By Francis Dillingham, Bachelor in Diuinitie, and Preacher of Gods word at Wilden in Bedfordshire. The contents follow in the next page.



A GOLDEN KEYE, OPENING THE LOCKE TO ETER∣NALL HAP∣PINES.
Containing seuen most sweete and comfortable directions to a Christian life.
By FRANCIS DILLINGHAM, Bachelor in Diuinitie, and Preacher of Gods word at WILDEN in Bedfordshire.
The Contents follow in the next Page.
LONDON Printed for IOHN TAPP, and are to be sold at his Shop on To∣wer-hil neare the Bulwarke Gate. 1609.





1 The Fierie triall.
2 The yong mans scripture.
3 The difficultie of saluation. Oeconomie or houshould go∣uerment shewing the duties of
4 Husbands and wiues.
5 Parents and children.
6 Maisters and seruants.
7 A funerall sermon.

TO THE RIGHT vertuous, wise, and wor∣shipfull Lady, the Lady Mary Winfeild, Grace and Peace.THree things there are (right wor∣shipfull and ver∣tuous Lady) which as in all times, haue hindered the salua∣tion of men, so in these our daies, do not a little keepe men from sincere pietie: worldlines plea∣sure,
and persecution. Touch¦ing the two first, in the 14. of Luke the 18. verse, they which were bidden to the Lordes supper, excused them∣selues after this manner: One said, I haue bought a farme, and another said, I haue married a wife, and therefore I cannot come. The world is like vnto a Sea, in which many men are drowned. The fish Polypus, o∣therwise a sottish creature, yet in the catching of shel-fish, vseth strange diligence: euen so some haue wisedome, onely for gain; but as concerning religion, they are merely brutish. As for
pleasure, if it be a principle that plures gula quam gladio periere: moe haue perished by gluttony then by the sword: How many haue perished tho∣row voluptuousnes? Riches and pleasures are many a mans God. Now concerning persecution, how many are so effeminate that they cannot abide any tryall? Fiery tryal through the mercies of God, wee haue none by the meanes of a gratious King, whom the Lord blesse continu∣ally; yet are the godly afflicted with vices and sinnes: blessed are they that can mourne for
the sinnes of other men: ney∣ther are the godly persecuted with the sinnes of men only, but also with their tongues. He that feareth God now a daies, is made a wonder amongst men. This is a grieuous persecution, because it is done by men, that professe the same religion; and sogrieuous is it to many, that for this cause they will not bee counted religi∣ous: they had rather bee open∣ly prophane, then publiquely religious, lest they should be scof∣fed at. Shall wee thinke that these men would abide the fiery tryall, that cannot abide this so easie a kind of tryall? Now that
men may relinquish the world and worldly pleasures, and also that they bee not offended with persecution, I haue penned this treatise: the Lorde blesse the same, to all that shall read it.