Æternalia, or, A treatise wherein by way of explication, demonstration, confirmation, and application is shewed that the great labour and pains of every Christian ought chiefly to be imployed not about perishing, but eternal good things from John 6, 27 / by Francis Craven.


AETERNAL•• OR A Treatise wherein by way of Ex•••¦cation, Demonstration, Confirmation, and Ap∣plication is shewed. That the great Labour and pains of every Christian ought chiefly to be imployed not about perishing, but E∣ternal good things, from John 6.27.
By FRANCIS CRAVEN, M. A. and Minister of the Gospel at Acton in Suffolk.
Matth. 6.33. v. But seek ye first the Kingdome of God and his Righ∣teousness, and all these things shall be added un∣to you.
Col. 3.2. v. Set your affections on things above, not on things on the Earth.
LONDON Printed by H. Brugis for R. Northcott adjoyning to St. Peters Alley in Cornhil, and at the Marriner and Anchor upon Fishstreet Hill near London Bridge, 1677.
THE EPISTLE DEDICATORY.To the truly Honourable Lady, the Lady Cordell, Not only a continuance of Tem∣poral good things upon Earth, but a full fruition of Eternal good things in Heaven.MADAM,THE goodness of Your La∣diships disposition hath procured you no little Love from those you live amongst, and I never could observe any, that I thought re∣ally
Loved you but they Honoured you, and were very ambitious upon all occasions to serve you. I must write my self one of those (though the mean∣est of many) from whom you may justly expect Love, Honour and Ser∣vice, and that for more reasons than (as I judge) you would be willing I should publish to the World; however permit me to say, Thankful∣ness makes my best service your debt; That singular worth that all (even your greatest Enemies) will acknow∣ledge to be in you, makes me to Honour you; and your no few inward en∣dowments of Grace, (I have some reason to say) I am not ignorant of, enforce me to Love; All which I can∣not forbear to express, unless I will brand my self with Ingratitude, the which I have ever held to be a Monster in nature and a solecisme in manners, a crime so odious that the more In∣genuous
 of the Heathens much decryed it, saying, The unthankful man is a compendium of all Evils. Now that I might give a publick testimony of all the said particulars; I most humbly crave leave that the following dis∣courses (which are not notional but pra∣ctical and containing nothing of Fana∣ticisme but Orthodox Truths) may to the view of the world go forth un∣der your name, and be transmitted un∣to the hands and use of your Neigh∣bours of Acton, for whose Instruction they were primarily prepared, and in whose hands I desire to leave them (ha∣ving your Ladiships name prefixed in the Front) as a testimony of that re∣spect I have for more then twenty years had to that place. Possibly they may in some degree, serve the Interest of their souls, when I am in my Grave. It is true they may meet with many profitable treatises of the like argu∣ment,
〈1 pag