An oration pronounced at Newipswich on the anniversary of American independence July 4, 1796. By Samuel Worcester, A.B.


A• ORAT••• PRONO•••• AT NEWIPSW••• ON THE ANNIVERSA•• OF •MERICAN INDEPENDE••• JULY 4. 1796.
BY SAMUEL WORCESTER, A. B.
AMHERST, NEWHAMPSHIRE, PRINTED BY SAMUEL CUSHING.
MDCCXCVI.
AN ORATION.IT has, time immemorial, been the practice of nations to celebrate days of public festival and solemnity. Notwithstanding human affairs are apparently in a state of continual fluctuation; yet such is the economy of the world, that single events are sometimes seen to involve the fate of millions, for successive ages. Every nation has its illustrious achievements, its eventful crises, and its important revolutions, which arouse the public mind, and produce emotions, too violent, not to break forth in outward demonstration. These emotions naturally return with the day, which gave them birth; and, of course, introduce the practice of anniversary commemoration. Nor is this a practice less useful, than natural. On such occasions the mind is advantageously shaken and elevated. Emulation kindles in the view of great actions; and a splendid celebration throws on an event additional lustre, and an air of importance, which operate, surprisingly, on the public sensibil|ity.
In the annals of our country, no event, doubt|less, is to be found, of greater moment to our na|tion, or to the world, than that, which gave birth to our independent existence. Nor is there, in our public calendar, a day more worthy of festiv|al observance, than the sacred anniversary, in the solemnization of which we are now engaged. It is, therefore, well done, my fellow citizens, that you have assembled on this illustrious occasion; and it is only to be regretted, that you have not an orator to address you, with talents more ade|quate to the importance of this conspicuous part.
But why, it may be asked, why is the day to be regarded as so eminently auspicious? Why should it be commemorated with such solemnity and eclat? Why should the memorials of its events be annually erected, amid the acclamations of the States? Is it because they have made us an inde|pendent nation? No; but because they have made us a free people. A state or nation may be at once independent and miserable. Nay, its in|dependent condition may be its greatest calamity▪ the very reason of all its wretchedness. Inde|pendence is on no other account valuable or de|sirable, than as it contributes to the security or advantageous exercise of the rights of man. So far as it does this, it is inestimable; but aside from this, it is but a mere name, for the conven|ience of party, and the promotion of selfish and sinister designs.
Anterior to the institution of society, mankind are wholly independent, severally, of each other. No one has a right to command; no one is under obligation to obey. Each individual is the arbiter of his own actions, and may claim it as his invio|lable prerogative to do that, which is right in hi