Englands mourning garment worne heere by plaine shepheards, in memorie of their sacred mistresse, Elizabeth; queene of vertue while she liued, and theame of sorrow being dead. To the which is added the true manner of her emperiall funerall. With many new additions, being now againe the second time reprinted, which was omitted in the first impression. After which followeth the shepheards spring-song, for entertainment of King Iames our most potent soueraigne. ...


ENGLANDS Mourning Garment:
Worne heere by plaine Shepheards, in me∣morie of their sacred Mistresse, ELIZABETH; Queene of Vertue while she liued, and Theame of Sorrow being dead.
To the which is added the true manner of her Emperiall Funerall. With many new additions, being now againe the second time reprinted, which was omitted in the first Im∣pression.
After which followeth the Shepheards Spring-Song, for entertainment of King IAMES our most potent Soueraigne.
Dedicated to all that loued the deceased Queene, and honour the liuing KING.
Imprinted at London for Thomas Millington, and are to be sold at the signe of the Crane in Paules Churchyard by Walter Burre.
1603.
To all true Louers of the right graci∣ous Queene Elizabeth, in her life; being vn∣doubtedly those faithfull Subiects that now honour and affect our most potent Lord, King Iames, after her death.MY Epistle to you, is like the litle Towne that the Cynicke would haue perswa∣ded the Citizens was readie to runne out at the great gates, being scarce so long as the Title. In a word, the negli∣gence of many better able, hath made me bold to write a small Epitomie, touching the abūdant vertues of Elizabeth our late sacred Mistris. In∣treating of her Princely birth, chast life, royall gouernment, and happie death; being a Lady borne, liuing, raigning, dying, all for Englands good. The manner is handled between Shep∣heards,

the forme of speech like the persons, rude: Affection exceedeth Eloquence, and I haue not shewne much Art; but exprest the du∣tie of a louing hart: Shead some teares in rea∣ding our Shepheards sorrow; and in that true passion, let your loue to our royall Lord be shewne: who hateth hypocrites, as iust men hell. Farewell all of you, that giue the dead Queene a sad Farewell, and the liuing King, a glad Wel∣come; the rest are Time-pleasers, and I write not to them.
Foelicem fuisse infaustum.
Englands Mour∣ning Garment.Worne by plaine Shepheardes, for the death of that most excellent Empresse Elizabeth, Queene of Vertue, while she liued; and Theame of Sorrow being dead.THENOT.COLLIN.Thenot.
COllin, thou lookst as lagging as the day,
When the Sun setting toward his westerne bed,
Shewes, that like him, all glory must decay,
And frolique life with murkie clouds o re-spred
Shall leaue all earthly beautie mongst the dead;
Such is the habite of thy new aray:
Why art thou not preparde to welcome May,
In whose cleare Moone thy younglings shall be fed,
With nights sweete dewes, and open flowers of day?
Collin.
I aunswer thee wi