An address to the people of the state of New-York, on the subject of the Constitution, agreed upon at Philadelphia, the 17th of September, 1787.


AN ADDRESS TO THE PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF NEW-YORK, On the SUBJECT of the CONSTITUTION, Agreed upon at PHILADELPHIA, The 17th of September, 1787.
NEW-YORK: PRINTED BY SAMUEL AND JOHN LOUDON, PRINTERS TO THE STATE.
AN ADDRESS TO THE PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF NEW-YORK, &c.Friends and Fellow Citizens,THERE are times and seasons when general evils spread general alarm and uneasiness, and yet arise from causes too complicated, and too little understood by many, to produce a unanimity of opinions respecting their remedies. Hence it is, that on such occasions, the conflict of arguments too often excites a conflict of passions, and intro|duces a degree of discord and animosity, which, by agitating the public mind, dispose it to precipitation and extravagance. They who on the ocean have been unexpectedly inveloped with tempests, or suddenly entangled among rocks and shoals, know the value of that serene, self-possession and presence of mind, to which in such cases they owed their preservation: nor will the heroes who have given us victory and peace, hesitate to acknowledge, that we are as much indebted for those bles|sings to the calm prevision, and cool intrepidity which planned and conducted our military measures, as to the glowing animation with which they were executed.
While reason retains her rule, while men are as ready to receive as to give advice, and as willing to be convinced themselves, as to con|vince others, there are few political evils from which a free and en|lightened people cannot deliver themselves. It is unquestionably true, that the great body of the people love their country, and wish it pros|perity; and this observation is particularly applicable to the people of a free country, for they have more and stronger reasons for loving it than others. It is not therefore to vicious motives that the unhappy divisi|ons which sometimes prevail among them are to be imputed; the peo|ple at large always mean well, and although they may, on certain oc|casions,

be misled by the counsels, or injured by the efforts of the few who expect more advantage from the wreck, than from the preserva|tion of national prosperity, yet the motives of these few, are by no means to be confounded with those of the community in general.
That such seeds of discord and danger have been disseminated and begin to take root in America, as unless eradicated will soon poison our gardens and our fields, is a truth much to be lamented; and the more so, as their growth rapidly encreases, while we are wasting the season in honestly but imprudently disputing, not whether they shall be pulled up, but by whom, in what manner, and with what instruments the work shall be done.
When the King of Great-Britain, misguided by men who did not merit his confidence, asserted the unjust claim of binding us in all cases whatsoever, and prepared to ob