A coppy of 1. the letter sent by the Queenes Majestie concerning the collection of the recusants mony for the Scottish warre, Apr. 17, 1639 2. the letter sent by Sir Kenelme Digby and Mr. Montague concerning the contribution : 3. the letter sent by those assembled in London, to every shire : 4. the names of the collectors in each county in England and Wales, and : 5. the message sent from the Queenes Majestie to the House of Commons by Master Comptroller the 5 of Febr., 1639.


A
COPPY OF
1. The letter sent by
the Queenes Majestie concerning
the collection of the Recusants Mony for
the Scottish Warre, Apr. 17. 1639.2. The Letter sent by Sir Kenelme Digby and
Mr. Mountague concerning the Contri∣bution.3. The Letter sent by those assembled
in London, to every shire.4. The names of the Collectors in each
County in England and Wales.
AND5. The Message sent from the
Queenes Majestie to the house of Com∣mons
by Master Comptroller
the 5. of Febr. 1639.
Printed at London in the yeare of the disco∣very
of Plots, 1641.
Henrette Marie. R.WEe have so good a beliefe of the loy∣altie
and affection of his Majesties
Catholique Subjects, as we doubt
not but upon this occasion, that hath
called his Majesty into the Nor∣therne
parts for the defence of his Honour and do∣minions,
they will expresse themselves so affected
as we have alwayes represented them to his Ma∣jesty;
So in this common consent, which hath
appeared in the Nobilitie, Iudges, Gentry and
others, to forward his Majesties service by their
persons and states, we have made no difficulty to
answer for the same correspondency in his Catho∣lique
Subjects, as Catholiques: Notwithstanding
they all have already concurred to this his Majesties
service, according to the qualities whereof they
are, when others of the same quality were called
upon. For wee beleeve that it became us, who
have beene so often interested in the sollicitation
of their benefits, to shew our selves now in the per∣swasion
of their gratitudes. Therefore having al∣ready
by his Majesty by other meanes recommen∣ded
to them this earnest desire of ours to assist and
serve his Majesty, by some considerable summe of
money, freely and cheerefully presented: Wee

have thought fit (to the end that this our desire,
may be the more publique and the more authori∣zed)
hereby to give you Commission and directi∣on
to distribute Coppies under your hand of this
testification thereof, unto those that have met in
London by our direction, about this businesse: And
unto the severall Collectors of every County.
And as wee presume the summe they will raise
will not be unworthy our presenting to the King;
so shall we be very sensible of it, as a particuler
respect to our selves, and will indeavour in the,
most efficatious manner wee can to improve the
merit of it, and to remove any apprehension of
prejudice, that any (who shall imploy themselves
towards the successe of this businesse) may con∣ceive;
by this they may be assured that wee will
secure them from all s