The copie of a letter from the Lord Generall his quarters certifying, how the Lord Generalls horse brake through the Kings army, and how Major Generall Skippen fought like a lion and gained better conditions from the enemy then was expected, the Kings having before intended to put all our foot to the sword : also, a letter from the north of other proceedings in those parts.


THE COPIE OF A LETTER FROM The Lord Generall His quarters.
CERTIFYING, How the Lord GENERALS Horse brake through the Kings Army; and how Major Generall Skippon fought like a Lion, and gained better conditions from the Enemy then was expected; the Kings F…s having before intended to put all our Foot to the Sword.
ALSO, A Letter from the North, of other proceedings in those parts.
Published according to Order.
Sept: 9th LONDON, Printed by JANE COE. 1644.
THE COPPIE OF A LETTR From my Lord Generall his QUARTERS.SIR,ON Wednesday the 21. of August 1644. the Kings whole Armie: both his own brigade, Maurices and Green∣vils were all drawn into the field in a battalia, supposed to be about 30000. And the Lord Generalls Army being onely about, 10000. horse and foot, we likewise drew out into the field. The Kings Army appeared in a whole body in the forme of a halfe Moon, within a mile of Listlehall, the Kings forces with this great body marched up within Musket shot of the Lord Generalls Armie, about 4. of the Clocke in the morning, my Lord Generalls Army began to play their Ordnance against them, and it is cononceived did good execution: The fight held all that day between the Ordnance and the Muskettires, and is conceived our men did good execution: upon the Ene∣mie, and at night some shor on both sides were made by the Musquetiers. On Thur•day night the Enemie cast up an Halfe Moon upon the Beake hill, on which they planted two or three peece of or•nance and played all the next day being Friday upon our bodie.
On S•tt•rday August the 24. Sergeant Major Generall Whithcot with the 〈◊〉 Regiment, and Collonel Wares of the White Regiment, and the blew ••giment of the Lord Generals, taking into consideration that the gaining of ••••itheel River would be very advantagious to our Army, by stopping up of the water, to make a Dam to hinder provision from passing that way to the •ing• Army, drew out their men to ambuscado the hedges, and the souldiers themselves wrought the mean while to raise the Banks, and made a compleat D•m; which was finish•d by Tuesday following.
O••unday the 25. of August, the Kings forces made some shot with small P••c•s, and were answered again from ours; and that with great courage from Collonel Gower of the red Regiment, and divers others.
Major Generall Skippon was shot in the right hand, but onely a brush, and tore his Buffe coat on that on that side, but no great hurt God be praised, On the Kings party Colonell Chapernoone was shet in the head, and taken prisoner, supposed to be mortally wounded.
On Munday the 26. of August, both partees still played each upon o