A confession of faith in Latine / by James Salgado ...


A CONFSSION OF FAITH, IN LATINE.
By JAMES SALGADO: A Spaniard, and sometimes a Priest in the Church of Rome.
LONDINI: Anno Domini, MDCLXXX.
To all and Singular Members of the University of OXFORD. To the Reverend, and most Excellent, Mr. Vicechancellour. To the Reverend and Eminent Heads of Colledges. And to the Worthy Fellows of the same.James Salgado, A Spaniard,wisheth Felicity, both Temporal, and Eternal.I Should be very Injurious to your bounty Liberally bestow∣ed upon me; O ye Men, every one famous according to his Title and Degree, unless according to the Old Cu∣stom of the Romans, I should Crown that Fountain with Laurel, from whence I drew Water: For 'tis a great Sign of Inhumanity, to receive a benefit, and not to return it again.
The Heliotrope must conform it self according to the Suns motion; because, as it cannot avoid it's Light, so it ought not to decline its influence. But this acteth so effectually upon it, that it is forced to turn its Head to the Course of the Sun.
You have relieved my Misery, O ye Gentlemen of the Uni∣versity, and that so effectually, that you have invited me to a Publick acknowledgement of your benevolence toward me; which I am now willing to do, lest by any longer delay, this good purpose of mine should lose its reward.
This little Book therefore I lay before your Feet, expecting what Censure you'll please to bestow upon it.
You'l take my Endeavours I hope in good part, and pardon

this my temerity. (If taking a little pains in this exercise, as Sylla the Roman Dictator was wont to carry a little Image of Jupiter in his bosom;) So I presume to bear your Portraicture in my heart; and this I will do beyond the reach of all envy; and shall account it among the Number of the greatest Vertues to be found guilty of such a fault; neither because you have done me a kindness therefore shall it be lawful for me to be un∣grateful. With Cyrus therefore, favourably receive me as a genuin, and true Persian; and do not disdain to enlighten me with the bright raies of your further Benevolence, who desires to borrow some splendor from your shadow.
Fare ye well, most worthy Gentlemen,
and be entirely fa∣vourable, to one that admires your dignities, and is,
Your Servant, James Salgado, A Converted Spaniard.A CONFESSION of FAITH.IN the Name of GOD Amen.After I had been admitted to the Order of Priest-Hood, in the Church of Rome; and now perceived that I was to look after the Cure of other Mens Souls committed to my Charge, as well as my own; I very often consider'd with my self, how I might safely enter upon the way of Salvation, and so provide salutary supplies, both for my self and also for the Flock committed to my Custody.
'Tis very true, that the Romanists debar the Common People from reading the Holy Scriptures, as from the Food of Life; but yet those of the Clergy, (and that especially in Spain, my Native Country,) as well as other Roman-Catho∣licks are wont more