Herod and Pilate reconciled. A new dialogue betwixt a malignant and an Independent.






HEROD and PILATE reconciled.
A New Dialogue betwixt a Malignant and an Independent.
M.YOur Servant, Brother. What's the news since we
Did last confer? Doth Independency
Thrive, and grow pregnant? Doth it now increase
Ith Associate Counties? shall we have peace?
Speak, brother, all amort? strange alteration,
Come you late from some new Congregation?
Me thinks you seem distracted: what not well?
Do our Designes miscarry? Brother, tell
Your dear companion; come, the worst of all
Will not discourage us: we cannot fall
Lower then now we are: brother if we
Shall ever rise, thank Independency.

I.O my dear brother, 'tis those fatall Votes
Lately 'ith House, which makes us change our Notes;
We must disband our Army: and to see
Our godly party in such agonie,
Will move a heart of stone; a day of doome,
Of gloomy sadnesse: 'mongst us those that come
Newly from Colechester, will tell you more
Of this sad news, then ere you heard before.

M.I smell a plot from Scotland, some such thing
I heard a wisper of; but whilest the King
Is safe at Homeby: what need you to fear
Cannot your conquering Army fetch him there,
And guard him to the City: soon you'l see
An alteration with Presbyterie.




I.But brother, there's more; the Militia's put
Into the Common Councels hands: we are shut
Quite out of all: and this new Tyranny
More odious to us far than Prelacy,
Must now command us: we will not endure
Such base affronts from them.

M.No brother, sure
Disband not.

I.We the preservers, to be
So sleighted, not regarded; and to see
Skippon and Massie both preferr'd: and these
The City Favourites.

M.Sad progedies.
We have been active, brother, but of late
Our combs are cut; we most unfortunate.
But what will Skippon go their Fabius,
Their man, so wise, so solid, and Religious?
In Cornwall, brother, we must needs confesse
His valiant service in their great distresse.
And maugre all, the Sectaries must yeeld
That he deserved best at Naseby Field.

I.Brother, had he been but Independent,
S•rigg should have made his actions more transcendent.

MBut shall their Fabius and Marcellus
Be joyn'd together?

I.O this doth quell us.
Brother, these must command, and 'tis not we
With all our plots, designes, and policie,
Can now prevent their choice: except there be
In our disbanding some grand mutiny.

M.Is there no hope of that? me thinks your zeal
Might animate the Souldiers to appeal
To all the Countreys: and 'tis Lilborns sence,
You may complain o'th' House for this offence.

I.O but the City, brother, and these Scots
Are cunning, subtill, to prevent our plots.
They have a major part i'th House; and then
Advise, how to oppose these craftie men.

M.Send frantick Peters down, and let him there
Belch out his surious raptures; twill go neer
To work an alteration: we must lend
Our best assistance now: some Notes from us
May do you service.

IHelp from Aulicus,
Or any other; our necessity
Makes us n