Two speeches spoken in the house of the Lords, by the Lord Viscount Newarke. The first concerning the right of bishops to sit in Parliament, May 21, 1641. The second about the lawfulnes and conveniency of their intermedling in temporall affaires, May the 24th. following.


TWO SPEECHES spoken in the house of the LORDS, By the Lord Viscount Newarke.
The first Concerning the right of Bishops to sit in Parliament, May 21, 1641.
The second about the lawfulnes and conveniency of their intermed∣ling in Temporall affaires, May the 24th. following.
London, Printed 1641.
The first Speech Concerning the right of Bishops to sit in Parliament, May 21. 1641.My Lords,I Shall take the boldnesse to speak a word or two upon this subject, first as it is in it selfe, then as it is in the consequence: For the former I thinke hee is a great stranger in Antiquity, that is not well acquainted with that of their sitting here, they have done thus and in this manner, almost since the conquest, and by the same power and the same right the other Peeres did, and your Lordships now doe, and to be put from this their due, so much their due, by so many hundred yeeres strengthened and confirmed,
 and that without any offence, nay, pretence of any, seems to mee to be very severe; if it be jus, I dare boldly say it is summum. That this hinders their Ecclesiasticall vocation, an argument I heare much of, hath in my apprehension more of shadow then substance in it: if this be a reason, sure I am it might have been one six hundred yeers ago.
A Bishop, my Lords, is not so circumscribed with∣in the circumference of his Diocesse, that his some∣times absence can bee termed, no not in the most strict sense a neglect or hinderance of his duty, no more then that of a Lievtenant from his County, they both have their subordinate Ministers, upon which their influences fall, though the distance be remote.
Besides, my Lords, the lesser must yield to the greater good; to make wholsome and good Laws for the happy and well regulating of Church and Common-wealth, is certainly more advantagious to both, then the want of the personall execution of their office, and that but once in three yeers, and then peradventure but a moneth or two, can be pre∣judiciall to either. I will go no further to prove this, which so long experience hath done so fully, so demonstratively.
And now my Lords, by your Lordships good leave, I shall speak to the consequence as it reflects both on your Lordships, and my Lords the Bishops. Dangers & inconveniences are ever best prevented è longinquo; this president comes neere to your Lordships, and such a one, that mutato nomine devo∣bis. Pretences are never wanting, nay, sometimes
 the greatest evils appeare in the most faire and spe∣cious outsides, witnesse the Shipmony, the most abominable, the most illegall thing that ever was, and yet this was painted over with colour of the Law; what Bench is secure, if to alleage, be to convince, and which of your Lordships can say then he