The triumphs of London prepared for the entertaiment [sic] of the right honorable Sir Thomas Lane, knight, Lord Mayor of the city of London. Containing a full description of the pageants, speeches, songs, and the whole solemnity of the day. Performed one Monday the 29 of October, 1694. Set forth at the proper cost and charges of the honorable Company of Clothworkers. Published by authority.


THE
Triumphs Of London▪
Prepared for the Entertaiment of the Right Honorable
Sir THOMAS LANE, Knight,
Lord Mayor of the City of
LONDON.
CONTAINING
A full Description of the Pageants, Speeches, Songs,
and the whole Solemnity of the Day.
Performed one Monday the 29 of October, 1694.
Set forth at the Proper Cost and Charges of the
HONORABLE COMPANY of
CLOTHWORKERS.
Published by Authority.
LONDON,
Printed and are to be Sold by Richard Baldwin, at
the Oxford Arms Inn, in Warwick-Lane. 1694
TO THE RIGHT HONORABLE
Sir THOMAS LANE, Knight,
LORD MAYOR of the City of LONDON.My Lord,BEfore I congratulate Your Lordship's happy In∣auguration
to the Pretorial Dignity, I must
first pay my duteous Veneration to the Merit
that advanced You thither. Your Lordship had that
Remarkable Triumph in Your Election, that when
You stood Candidate for the Chair, You brought so
fair a Mass of Virtues to intitule You to that Pretenti∣on,
that instead of Doubts and Scrutinyes, the tedious
Disputes and Jars of Voices and Parties, too common
in too many Elections, 'twas enough for such Merit
as Sir Thomas Lane's only to enter the Lifts and carry
the Conquest. Divided Favours were utterly Stran∣gers
there. Your Lordship was that universal Darling
that less than an hour began and concluded the
Choice; insomuch that there wanted no more to fix
Your Lordship's Wreath of Honour, then only to pre∣sent
the Brow that wears it.

And as Magistracy, especially in so high a Station,
as Your Lordship's, is no less then the immediate
Lievtenancy of Majesty, the Deputy and Represen∣tative
of Soveraign Power, Your Lordship makes
Your Entry to that Honorable Post of Trust with
all those eminent Advantages, as must fully answer
the Expectation of the World. For You bring with
You, that Vivacity and Sprightlyness of a fair and
Active Youth to undertake it, a Genius and a Soul,
and all the warmth of a Publick Spirit to execute it; and
to both these, that unshaken Fidelity to Crown the
Hand that holds it. Nay not to want even the least
Ornament or Decoration of Dignity, You bring a
Person too even to grace the Honour You wear.
Thus as a Vigilant and Faithful Magistrate is a true
Crown Jewel, Your Prince and Your Country, those
two great Ascendants, being Your Lordships whole
Influencing Powers, You challenge all the Qualificati∣ons
for the Highest and clearest Lustre that that tru∣ly
Royal Jem can bear.
Nay Your Accession to Magistracy gives us this
particular Observation, that Your Lordship enters
the Seat, left You so warm with the Merit that fill'd
it before You, to whose worth and Virtues Your
Lordship brin