The divine right of episcopacy demonstrated from Calvin and Beza together with a letter to a Presbyterian minister.


THE DIVINE RIGHT OF EPISCOPACY, Demonstrated from Calvin and Beza. Together with a LETTER TO A Presbyterian Minister For UNION.
Licens'd, March the 10th, 1689/90.
LONDON, Printed for Randal Taylor, near Sta∣tioners-Hall. 1690.
DEFINITIONS.I.
THE Power of ORDINATION is that Right which the Governours of the CHVRCH have to separate Persons whom they find duely Qua∣lified, unto the Holy Ministry of the Gospel.
II.
The power of Iurisdiction is that Right which the Governours of the Church have to make Canons which are wanting, or to Execute those already made, for the Regulation of Church-Members.
III.
The President Bishop, is he, who from his Pre-eminence to other Ministers, is invested with a six∣ed Power of  Ordination, Regulated by Canons, and of  Jurisdiction, ballanced by assisting Ministers.
IV.
The Angel of any Church Representative, is the Bishop presiding over the other Ministers, within the Respective Diocess, Province, or Patriarchate.
POSTULATUMS.THat the 70 Disciples (from among whom Matthias was called, to be ordained one of the 12 Apo∣stles) were Persons in holy Orders in the Ministry.II.
That  Timothy in the Church of Ephesus, and Titus in the Church of Crete, were pre-eminent to other Ministers, invested with a fixed Power of Ordination, and Jurisdiction, regulated by Canons, and ballanced by assisting Ministers.
III.
That for the avoiding of Schism, the Primitive Church retained the Government of one single person, pre-eminent unto other Ministers.
IV.
That the 7 Angels of the 7 Churches, written unto, in the Book of Revelation, are incouraged against all the devices of the ungodly, upon condition of their continuing faithful in their Administrations.
AXIOMS.I.
THE Regular Call of any Minister already ordain∣ed, is from an Office of an inferiour, to that of a Superior Station.
II.
The Pre-eminence in any Office, includes a propor∣tioned Jurisdiction, over the Officers who are under them.
III.
The Divine Right is manifest, in that Ecclesiastical Government which was instituted by Christ, continued by his Apostles, retained in the Primitive Church, and approved from Heaven by Revelation; in subservi∣ency to any end, wherein the well-being of Christia∣nity is concerned.
IV.
The want of that Government in the Church, which is of Divine Right, is pernicious to the Gospel, and to the Christian Religion.
PROPOSITION I. The twelve Apostles were President Bishops over the 70 Disciples.Demonstration.THE President Bishop is he, who being Pre-eminent to other Mi∣nisters, is invested with a fixed Power of Ordination, Regulated by

Canons, and of Iurisdiction, ballanced by assisting Ministers; (by Definition III.) But in respect to the 70 Disciples, who were all in the holy Ministry, (by Postulatum I.) and from among whom Matthias was called to be of the 12. (by Postulatum I.) The sacred College of the Apostles had a fixed Pre-em