Odcombs complaint: or Coriats funerall epicedium or death-song, vpon his late reported drowning. With his epitaph in the Barmuda, and Utopian tongues. And translated into English by Iohn Taylor.


ODCOMBS Complaint: OR CORIATS funerall Epicedium: or Death-song, vpon his late re∣ported drowning. WITH His Epitaph in the Barmuda, and Utopian tongues. And translated into English by Iohn Taylor.
Printed for merrie recreation, and are to be told at the salutation in Vtopia. 1613.
The Authour in his owne defence.IF any where my lines do fall out lame,
I made them so, in merriment and game:
For, be they wide, or side, or long, or short,
All's one to me, I writ them but in sport;
Yet I would haue the Reader thus much know•
That when I list my simple skill to show
In poesie, I could both read and spell:
I know my Dactils, and my Spondees well;
My true proportion, & my equal measure,
What accent must bee short, and what at lea∣sur•
How to transpose my words frō place, to plac•
To giue my poesie the greater grace.
Either in Pastorall or Comick straine,
In Tragedy, or any other vaine,
•n nipping Satyrs, or in Epigrams,
•n Odes, in Elegies, or Anagrams,
•n eare-bewitching rare Hexameters,
Or in Iambicks, or Pentameters:
• know these like a Sculler not a Scholler,
And therefore Poet, pray asswage your coller.
•f as theese in writing you enuy me,
Before you iudge me do your worst and try me.
I. T.To the Mirror of Time, the most refulgent, splendidious reflecting Court Animal, Don Archibald Armstrong: Great M. Comptroller, Commander, and Countermander of mirth, alacrity, sport, and ridiculous confabulations, in this septentrionall, or Westerne Monarchie of Magna Britannia. Your poore and daily Orator, IOHN TAILOR, wisheth increase of your wisdome, in your owne per∣son, and that your eminence and spirit, may be infused into the bosoms of most mens heires, that esteem more of Wealth, then of WISDOME.RIght worthie worthlesse Patron, the daies and times being such, wherein wit goes a wool-gathering in a thredbare Iacket, and folly is well reputed amongst those that seeme wise, I, conside∣ring this, hauing but little wit, in a mad humour bad farewell it, and neuer so much as asked the

question, with whether wilt thou? Being certain∣ly perswaded that playing the foole will repaire the breaches which my vnhappy wit hath made in the Bulwarke of my reputation (as it hath done to many others) wherefore good sir (with) reuerence I hearing that so great a member in your esteemed quality, as Mr. Thomas Coriat of Odcomb, was drowned in his passage towards Constantinople; And knowing that many good & worthy writers haue graced his living trauels: So I haue made bold (vnder your great Patronage) to write his tragicall supposed Death-song, or Funerall Elegie; not knowing any man of that worthy worth (be∣sides your selfe) to whom I might dedicate these sad Epicediums. Thus, not doubting of your ac∣ceptance and protection, I commit my selfe and my labours to your wonderfull wised