Actions for slaunder, or, A methodicall collection under certain grounds and heads of what words are actionable in the law and what not a treatise of very great use and consequence to all men, especially in these times wherein actions for slaunder are more common and do much more abound then in times past, and when the malice of men so much increases, well may their tongue want a directory : to which is added awards or arbitrements methodified under severall grounds and heads collected out of our year-books and other private authentick authorities ... / by Jo. March.


Actions for Slaunder,
OR,
A Methodicall Collection under
certain Grounds and Heads, of what
words are actionable in the LAW,
and what not?
A Treatise of very great use and consequence to
all men, especially in these times, wherein Actions
for Slaunder are more common, and do much more
abound then in times past: And when the malice of
men so much increases, well may their tongue want
a Directory.
To which is added,
AWARDS or ARBITREMENTS,
Methodised under severall Grounds and Heads, colle∣cted
out of our Year-Books and other pirvate authen∣tick
Authorities: wherein is principally shewed, what
Arbitrements are good in Law, and what not.
A learning of no lesse use and consequence to all men,
then the former: for that submissions to Arbitre∣ments
were never more in use then in these times.
And this learning well observed, would avoid multi∣tudes
of suits and contentions which daily arise
through the defects of Arbitrements.
By JO. MARCH of Grayes-Inne, Barister.
LONDON,
Printed by F. L. for M. Walbank and R. Best,
and are to be sold at Grayes-Inne-Gate.
1647.
〈1 page duplicate〉〈1 page duplicate〉Actions for Slaunder.
OR
A methodicall Collection, un∣der
certaine Grounds and
heads, of what words are
actionable in the Law, and
what not?THE first part of my
labour is, to shew
what words are acti∣onable
in the Law,
and what not? In the
prosecution of which,
ti's not my purpose
to run over all the cases that have bin
adjudged, neither can I if I would; my
intent is only to lay downe a certaine
rule or ground, upon which to go (which
will indeed be as a light to all Cases of
this nature) and having done so, to fol∣low
every particular thereof, with the
most pertinent cases that I finde ad∣judged
in the Law; which done there

will be very few cases of consequence
hitherto adjudged omitted.
But before I enter upon this part of my
labour give me leave to premise this,
that I do not undertake this work, with
an intent •o incourage men in giving
•ll and unworthy language, or to teac••
them a lawlesse Dyalect, but (as my
Lord Cook speakes) to direct and in∣struct
them rightly to manage that,
which [though but a little member]
proves often the greatest good, or the
greatest evill to most men. And with∣all
to deterre men from words, which
are but winde (as hee further speakes)
which subject men to actions, in
which dammages and costs are to bee
recovered, which usually trench to the
great hinderance a