A pattern of mercy. Opened in a sermon at St. Pauls, before the Right Honorable, the Lord Mayor, and the Lord General Monck: February 12. 1659. / By Tobias Conyers, minister at St. Ethelberts, London.


A Pattern of Mercy. Opened in a SERMON AT St. PAULS, BEFORE The Right Honorable, the Lord Mayor, AND THE Lord General Monck: February 12. 1659. By TOBIAS CONYERS, Minister at St. E∣thelberts, London.
LONDON, Printed by M. I. and are to be sold at the Grey-hound in St. Pauls Church-yard. at the Crown in Popes-head Alley, and at the Elephant and Ca∣stle near Temple Barr, 1660.
The Authors Apology.WHen I entered upon the ensuing Discourse in my private Meditations, I looked upon the complexion of the times, and considered the temper of the climate in which we live, and in a Na∣tion all rent and torn with differences in Opinions both Civil & Religious, I thought nothing could be more ac∣ceptable then a proposition of peace: But whilst I spoke for peace, (such was my unhappiness) some men made them∣selves ready for battel. The giving of offence to any sort of persons, was a thing as far remote from any design or pur¦pose of mine, as it is disagreeable to my temper & dispo∣sition to be at ods with any man. And looking over these Papers which now I publish to the world, (if I may be permitted to judge in mine own case) I cannot but wonder from whence the great cry of the City arose, as if some Theudas, or Judas Galilaeus were risen from the dead; being naturally averse from the starting of a∣ny new Opinions, and far enough from having any thing extraordinary in me either to create or make me the head of any new sect or faction: It is confessed the 12th. of Fehruary was a critical day, and all circumstan∣ces concurred to render me unacceptable: What I suf∣feredin my self, was nothing; but that I should so much as accidentally occasion any reflection upon that noble Gentleman, the Lord Mayor, (whom all men must needs judge both too great and too wise to concern him∣self in any thoughts or meditations of minds) troubled me not a little; it's true, I had been often soliciting my Lord for dismission; and that he took this occasion to do it, was so far less displeasing to me, as it was satisfa∣ctory unto others; for having served his Lordship for himself without any mercenary proposals and expecta∣tions, I could not in the least be dis-satisfied with any thing that did but seem either to support or vindicate his Lordships Honor and Reputation in the World.
The aspersions cast upon me are either that I am Schis∣matical, an Enemy to the Church, or that I am Heretical: To both which I crave leave to answer, and make my just defence.
1. That I am Schismatical, or a Sectary, I know not why any man should think so; it is true that I hold com∣munion with, and observe the laws of Piety and holy Charity with that Christian people to whom Mr. John Goodwin is Pastour; and this I alwayes thought I might do with the salvage of truth, honour and conscience; and yet that it