At the court at White-hall the second of March, 1665/6. Present the Kings Most Excellent Majesty. His Royal Highness the Duke of York. His Highness Prince Rupert. Duke of Albemarle. Lord Chamberlain.... It was this day ordered by his Maiesty in Council, that whatever ship or vessel shall take in her lading in any port of England or Wales, or town of Berwick upon Tweed, of any sorts of goods or merchandizes whatsoever not prohibited by law to be exported....


 [illustration]  [royal blazon or coat of arms] C RHONI SOIT QVI MAL Y PENSEDIEV ET MON DROITAt the COURT at WHITE-HALL the Second of March, 1665/6.PresentThe Kings most excellent Majesty.His Royal Highness the Duke of York.His Highness Prince Rupert.Duke of Albemarle.Lord Chamberlain.Earl of Lauderdail.Lord Fitzharding.Lord Berkley.Lord Ashley.Mr. Vice-Chamberlain.Mr Secretary Morice.Mr. Chancellor of the Dutchy.Sir William Coventry.IT was this day Ordered by His Majesty in Council, That whatever Ship or Vessel shall take in her Lading in any Port of England or Wales, or Town of Berwick upon Tweed, of any sorts of Goods or Merchandizes whatsoe∣ver not Prohibited by Law to be Exported (the Lading of the said Vessel, nor any part thereof not consisting of Salt-Peter, Powder, Arms, Am∣munition, great Guns, Pitch, Tarr, Hemp, Masts, Cordage, Clapboards or Pipestaves) That such Ship or Vessel giving notice before her setting Sail, to the chief Officer or Officers of the Custom-House, at such Port where she takes in her Lading, of the Port or Place to which she is first intended or designed, and taking a Pass from the said chief Officers thither, (which they are hereby Authorized and Required to grant) shall not be molested or hindred in her Voyage thither, though such Port or Place do belong unto, or be in the possession of any Prince or State in Enmity with His Majesty. And hereof all His Majesties Officers and loving Subjects are required to take notice, and yield all due Obedience to this His Majesties Pleasure.
JOHN NICHOLAS.LONDON, Printed by John Bill and Christopher Barker, Printers to the Kings most Excellent Majesty, 1665/6.