The brides longing for her bride-groomes second comming A sermon preached at the funerall of the right worshipfull, Sir Thomas Crevv, knight, sergeant at law to his maiestie. By the late learned and reverend divine, Rich. Sibs.



THE BRIDES Longing for her BRIDE-GROOMES second comming. A Sermon preached at the funerall of the right Worshipfull, Sir THOMAS CREVV, Knight, Sergeant at Law to his MAIESTIE.
By The late learned and reverend Divine' RICH. SIBS.
REV. 22. 17.The Spirit and the Bride say, Come, and let him that heareth, say, come.
LONDON: Printed by E. P. for E. Langham, in Bambury. 1638.
To the Reader.Loving Readers:LOe here the ve∣rifying of that ancient adage, quod differtur, non au∣fertur, for long look't for comes at last. That which before a So∣lemne and sad assem∣bly, was publikely preached and commit∣ted to the eares of some, is now printed

and committed to the eyes of all that have a minde to reade it; which thing hath with a long and long∣ing desire bin wished and waited for by sun∣dry. This Funeral ser∣mon bespake your re∣ceiving and respecting of it in a double consideration, each of which, in my opinion, hath an important, rare, and singular pon∣deration. Behold, first the Man; secondly, the matter. The Man by

whom, and the man for whom, it was made: the one that worthy Divine, Dr Sibs, who in his life time intended and ap∣prooved it for the presse, as it now comes forth; the other that Worshipful Serjeant, Sir Thomas Crew, men of more then ordinary worth and goodnesse; whom to name is e∣nough, to those that knew them: for if I should enter into a particular discourse,

and discovery of their deserved worth, I feare I should more disho∣nour my undertakings, and wrong your expe∣ctation, then in any proportion answer the excellency of two such worthy Theames. Se∣condly, for the matter, as the occasion & mens expectations were ex∣traordinary, so shal you finde his preparation; Read, & then judge. It sweetly, and to the life sets forth the duty, de∣sire, and disposition of

the Church, & Spouse of Christ, Ecchoing a faithful and prayerful Amen, to all the truths of God, especially to the precious promises, and chiefly to that promise of promises, Christs second com∣ming; which in cold bloud, undauntedly to desire, is an unfallible marke of a true and through cōvert: which that we may doe, wee must make sure our es∣pousall to Christ here, and get to be clad with

the wedding garment of faith, and repen∣tance, teaching us to ponder & pray much, and then admirable shall be our confident standing before God; our rich hope, our qui∣etnesse and hearts ease, our joy, as if wee had one foot in heaven al∣ready. Wee shall bee able with S. Paul, to cast downe our gantlet, and bid defi∣ance to Divels, to men, to height, to depth, to things present, and

things to come. If all the hearts in the world were one Heart, it could not comprehend those rich blessings, wherewith true Chri∣stians are richly in∣dowed, and those spi∣rituall ioyes and