A mappe of mans mortalitie Clearely manifesting the originall of death, with the nature, fruits, and effects thereof, both to the vnregenerate, and elect children of God. Diuided into three bookes; and published for the furtherance of the wise in practise, the humbling of the strong in conceit, and for the comfort and confirmation of weake Christians, against the combat of death, that they may wisely and seasonably be prepared against the same. Whereunto are annexed two consolatory sermons, for afflicted Christians, in their greatest conflicts. By Iohn Moore, minister of the word of God, at Shearsbie in Leicester-shire.


A MAPPE OF MANS MORTALITIE.
Clearely manifesting the originall of DEATH, with the Nature, Fruits, and Effects thereof, both to the Vnregenerate, and Elect Children of GOD.
Diuided into three Bookes; and published for the furtherance of the wise in practise, the humbling of the strong in conceit, and for the comfort and confirma∣tion of weake Christians, against the combat of DEATH, that they may wisely and seasonably be prepared against the same.
Whereunto are annexed two Consolatory SERMONS, for afflicted Christians, in their greatest Conflicts.
BY IOHN MOORE, Minister of the Word of God, at Shearsbie in LEICESTER-SHIRE.
HEBR. 9.27.Booke 1. It is appoynted vnto men, that they shall once dye, and after that com∣meth the Iudgement.
REVEL. 4.13.2. Then I heard a voyce from heauen, saying vnto mee; Write, the dead which dye in the Lord are fully blessed: euen so saith the Spirit; for they rest from their labours, and their workes follow them.
ECCLES 9.10.3 All that thy hand shall finde to doe, doe it with all thy power; for there is neyther worke, nor inuention, nor knowledge, nor wisedome in the graue, whither thou goest.
LONDON: Printed by T.S. for GEORGE EDVVARDS, and are to be sold at the signe of the Greyhound in Paules Church-yard. 1617.
TO THE RIGHT HONOVRABLE, Sr. FOVLKE GREVILL Knight, Chancelor of his Highnesse Court of Exchequer, and one of his Maiesties most Honourable Priuie Councell: the assurance of Gods loue in all outward blesings of this life, with the vndoubted euidence of Gods Spirit, for the fruition of Heauen and hap∣pinesse in the life to come, be daily more and more increased and confirmed, through Iesus Christ, &c.Right Honourable:SVch is the force of Vertue, and of the very shadow of Godlinesse, that (as it were) naturally it draweth mens loue and affection, and after a speciall manner vniteth mindes to∣gether, farre distant, and different in calling and condition. The very Heathen hauing experience hereof, both by their writing confessed, and also practised the same one towards another; who for the loue of morall vertues embraced those whom they neuer saw. How much more then should Gods Children, rightly informed by Gods Word, and reformed by his Spirit, most highly value the incomparable worth of sincere Religion, and the holy pro∣fession thereof, by the meanes and ministery whereof, men

are (as it were