Aggeus and Abdias prophetes the one corrected, the other newly added, and both at large declared.


¶ Aggeus and Abdias Prophetes, the one corrected, the other newly added, and both at large declared.
The earnest loue that I beare to thy house hath eaten me. Psal. lxix. Ioan. ii.Phinees hath tourned awaye my anger because he was moued with loue of me. Num. xxv.Imprinted at London by Willyam Seres. 1562.
¶ A Preface to al that loue the earnest promotinge of Gods glo∣rye, in his Churche by true religion.ALthoughe the com∣men vsage of dedicating bookes, is to require the defense of some woor∣thye personage of lear∣nynge or authoritye for the thing that it is writ∣ten: yet the maiestie of the matter in thys boke, is such, that it rather defendes than sekes defence, and thexample of the Pro∣phet, whych wrytes it not to one, but ma∣nye, suffers me not to sende it, to any one sorte of menne particularly, but general∣lye to all that should vnfeinedly promote the encrease of Gods glory, bicause all de∣grees of men do owe a dutye to the buil∣dinge, of this gods house. And if anye of∣fence be taken (as God knowes, none is purposelye giuen) the defence of manye is greater than of a fewe, and that authori∣tye or credite, which one manne alone can not bring to passe, al iointly together shal more easely obtaine. The Prophet is sent from God to the Prince, the highe Priest



and the people: so I speake to the rulers, the ministers and comminalty. The cheef intent of his Prophecie, is to stirre all to the spedye buildinge of Gods house, whi∣che they had so long neglected: my labour is to bring some of euery sort (for al is not possible) to an earnest fortheringe of gods true religion, of late most mercifullye re∣stored vnto vs, which not long agoe, most cruellye was persecuted, of manye yet ha∣ted, and of euery man almost now to cold∣lye folowed and practised. But if this Prophecy were read and depelye conside∣red, with such a hungry desire of gods glo∣rye, as the Prophete spake and wrote it, and I for my parte and pore abilitie, haue declared it: I doute not, but ye good should be stirred by gods spirit, more earnestly to seke gods glory, & the froward shuld be a∣frayed of gods plague, & ashamed stubber∣nely to striue against ye trueth cōtinually.
The state of religion in these our mi∣serable dayes, is much like to the trouble∣som time that this Prophet liued in: God graunt that after many greuous stormes it may take like roote in vs, as it did than in them. After the long captiuity of gods people in Babilon, god gaue them gracy∣ous king Cyrus, which set them at liber∣ty and sent them home to builde Goddes



house: So after our longe Romish slaue∣rye, God raysed vs vp good kynges which restored vs gods booke that long had bin buried, and loused vs from the bondage of straunge gods, forreyn powers, cruell hi∣pocrites, and wicked Idols. And as after that short fredome vnder good Cirus, en∣sued the crueltye of Hamman, for negli∣gently handling gods buildinge: A