Justifying faith: or, That faith by which the just do live briefly describ'd in a discourse on 1 Joh. 5.12. By the author of a late book, entitled Summum bonum, or, An explication of the divine goodness, &c. To this discourse is added, an abstract of some letters to an eminent learned person, concerning the excellency of the Book of common prayer, &c.



JUSTIFYING FAITH: OR, That Faith BY WHICH The JUST do LIVE, Briefly describ'd In a DISCOURSE on 1 Joh. 5. 12.
By the Author of a late Book, Entitled Summum Bonum, or, An Explication of the Divine Goodness, &c.
〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉 S. Basil. in Psal. 115.
To this Discourse is added, an Abstract of some Letters to an Eminent Learned Person, concerning the Excellency of the Book of Common Prayer, &c.
LONDON, Printed for William Crook, at the Sign of the Green Dragon without Temple-Bar. 1679.
ILLUSTRISSIMO Virtutum Omnium Exemplari, Domino HENEAGIO FINCH, BARONI DAVENTRIAE, Summo ANGLIAE Cancellario.AEQuum videtur, ut Linguâ non Vulgari Te Alloquar, Co∣lendissime DOMINE, Quem Genii, & Indolis adeo non Vulga∣ris esse Expertus sum. 〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉 Tu∣am Verè Coelestem Ego sane Natu∣ram potius SERAPHICAM vocarem, quàm HUMANITATEM. Nimirùm hujusmodi in Me contulisti Benefici∣um, ut Quale sit Solus DEUS Cog∣noverit, nec quisquam poterit Morta∣lium Rem aliquam Tot, & tam Mi∣ris
Involutam Circumstantiis Anim∣quantumvis Perspicacissimo penit• Inspicere. Hasce nostras Bonitatis In∣finitae Explicationis Nostrae Vindi• as, & Liturgiae Anglicanae Laudes T• bi Dicatas velim; namque Anim Tuo Gloriosissimum Bonitatis Infinitae seu Divinae Characterem Impressum V• disse gestio; ac Tui sanè Me semper Oportebit, in Precationibus Nostr• Quotidianis Meminisse, utpote, Q• sum, & ero—Dum Spiritus hos r•¦get artus,
Amoris, ac Reverentiae Vinculo Arctissimo Dominationi Tuae Obstrictus
E. E.To the Learned and Pious READERS.THE more just the Complaint is of the Excessive multitude of Books, so much the greater cause there is for the Publication of such short Dis∣courses as This, by which I have contri∣buted some assistance to Persons Virtuous∣ly dispos'd, to observe that Excellent Pre∣cept, 〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉, Simplifica Teipsum, viz. to draw off their Minds from the Distracting multiplicity of Imaginati∣ons concerning the Truth, to the Life and Practice of the Truth it self, which chiefly consists in the Efficacy of this Ap∣prehension, That the Divine Essence is
Absolutely One, And that Our Lord Jesus Christ, with the Father and the Holy Ghost, is the Onely True God He that believes This as he ought, will certainly despise this present World, an•love the Lord our God with all his Heart, and with all his Soul, and with all his Strength, and with all his Mind; and his Neighbour as Him∣self.
I doubt not but you will readily joyn with me in this Fervent Aspiration,
〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉.He that hath the Son hath Life, he that hath not the Son of GOD hath not Life. 1 Joh. 5, 12.THese words are such a kin