A treatise of oaths containing several weighty reasons why the people call'd Qvakers refuse to swear : and those confirmed by numerous testimonies out of Gentiles, Jews and Christians, both fathers, doctors and martyrs : presented to the King and great council of England, assembled in Parliament.


A TREATISE OF OATHS, Containing Several Weighty Reasons why the Peo∣ple call'd QƲAKERS refuse to SWEAR: And those Confirmed by Numerous Testimonies out of Gentiles, Jews and CHRISTIANS, both Fathers, Doctors and Martyrs.
Presented to the King and Great Council of England, Assembled in PARLIAMENT.
Mat. 5.34.But I say unto you, Swear not at all.
Jam. 5.22.Above all things, my Brethren, Swear not.
Jer. 32.10.Because of Oaths the Land Mourneth.
Theognis,He ought to Swear neither this thing nor any thing.
Maimonides,It is a great Good for a Man not to Swear at all.
Chrysostom,It is not lawful to Swear, neither in a just nor unjust Cause.
Printed Anno 1675.
TO THE King and Great Council OF ENGLAND, Assembled in PARLIAMENT. The Case of the People call'd QUA∣KERS relating to OATHS further Repre∣sented; and Recommended to their Con∣sideration, in order to a Speedy and Effectual REDRESS.THe common Benefit of the Free Peo∣ple of England being undoubtedly both the first and greatest Reason for the Ancient, Just & Necessary Constitution of Parliaments; and being also inform'd that it is your Resolution, to employ this Session to the Redress of Publick Grievances: And since We cannot but repute our

selves a Member of this Great Body you represent, by Birth and English Descent; and are not only involved in the Common Calamities of the Kingdom, but in Par∣ticular very cruelly Treated in our Per∣sons and Estates, because we cannot for pure Conscience take any Oath at all (though we have again and again tender'd our solemn Yea or Nay; and are most willing to sustain the same Penalty in Case of Lying, that is usually inflicted for Perjury) To the End we may not be interpreted to decline the Custom out of meer Humour or Evasion (though our frequent & heavy Sufferings by Fines and tedious Imprisonments, sometimes to Death it self, should sufficiently Vindicate us against any such Incharitable Censure) WE do, with all due Respect, present you with our Reasons for that Tenderness, and many Testimonies and Pr•sidents in their

Defence; and we entreat you, to express that Care of a Member of your own Civil Body, which Nature and Christianity excite to; We mean, That it would please you to consider how deeply we have al∣ready suffered, in Person and Estate, the Inconveniencies we have daily to en∣counter, and those Injurious not only to our selves, but others we commerce with, in that both they and we, because of our Tenderness in this Matter, are constantly at the Mercy of such as will Swear any thing to advantage themselves, where they are sure that a Contrary Evidence shall be by Law esteem'd (however True) Invalid; under which Difficulty several of us at this Hour fruitles