An humble attempt towards the improvement of psalmody: the propriety, necessity and use, of evangelical psalms, in Christian worship. : Delivered at a meeting of the Presbytery of Hanover in Virginia, October 6th, 1762. / By John Todd, A.M. ; [Six lines of quotations]


An HUMBLE ATTEMPT towards the Improvement of PSALMODY: THE PROPRIETY, NECESSITY and USE, OF EVANGELICAL PSALMS, IN Christian WORSHIP. Delivered at a Meeting of the Presbytery of Hanover in Virginia, October 6th, 1762.
BY JOHN TODD, A. M.
Let the Word of CHRIST dwell in you richly in all Wisdom; teaching and admonishing one another in Psalms, and Hymns, and Spiritual Songs, singing with Grace in your Hearts to the LORD.
COL. iii. 16.The Psalms and Hymns that the primitive Christians sung were Two-fold, taken out of the Holy Scriptures, and particularly out of the Book of Psalms, and such as were of their own private composing.
Impartial Enquiry into the Worship &c. of the Prim. Church.PHILADELPHIA: Printed by Andrew Steuart, at the Bible-in-Heart, in Second Street. MDCCLXIII.
THE PREFACE.THE Author had no design originally of publish|ing the following discourse, but a petition having been presented to the Presbytery, desiring their opinion, whether Dr. Watts's psalmody might with safety be used in the churches: and the Pres|bytery having appointed him to give his sentiments upon the subject; and several persons who heard it, having earnestly de|sired it might be printed, urging, that it would be of use to ma|ny serious enquirers: desirous to serve the best interest of man|kind, he sends it abroad into the world.
He will, probably, be censured, by readers who have not been teased with this controversy as a tautological trifler, with|out this apology, that many of those he had chiefly in view, having imbibed from their youth, a set of contracted sentiments on this head, and for want of better information were surprizing|ly bigoted to their notions, supposing it criminal to sing any other songs of praise to God, but Rouse's version of David's psalms; and being full of objections, which those of better im|provements would judge too trifling to deserve an answer: the author thought fit to use his utmost endeavours to remove their scruples, by line upon line, line upon line, and precept upon precept, precept upon precept.
He is sensible there are many pious and worthy ministers and private christians who conscientiously scruple to sing any other than the old version; and while this is the case they should not be molested. Whether they are incapable of throwing off the prejudices of education so as to examine the matter fairly; or have not had opportunity enough to examine and compare evan|gelical compositions with that they use; or imagine, that that alone is of divine appointment, and therefore to be continued in the church through all its vicissitudes and improvements; or that

it was composed by David himself; therefore to use any other would be to oppose a human to a divine composure