Of the nature of superstition a sermon preached at St Dunstans West, March 31, MDCLXXXII / by Edward Stillingfleet ...


OF THE NATURE OF SUPERSTITION. A SERMON PREACHED At St Dunstans West, March 31. MDCLXXXII.
By EDWARD STILLINGFLEET, D. D. Dean of S. Paul's, and Chaplain in Ordinary to His MAJESTY.
LONDON, Printed for H. Mortlock at the Phoenix in S. Paul's Church-Yard, and at the White Hart in Westminster-Hall, 1682.
Coloss. 2. 23.Which things have indeed a shew of wis∣dom in will-worship, and humility, and neglecting of the body, not in any honour to the satisfying of the flesh.SAint Paul was now a Prisoner at Rome for the sake of the Gospel, when he wrote this Epistle to the Colossians, but his mind was at liberty; And the compass of his thoughts and cares was so far from being confi∣ned within the Walls of a Prison, that it reached not only to the Churches of Asia planted by him∣self, as those of Ephesus and Galatia; but to those which had never seen him, as the Colossians and Laodiceans. For, saith he, I would that ye knewwhat great conflict I have for you, and for them at Laodicea, and for as many as have not seen my face in

the flesh. Had not he trouble enough with the Churches of Rome and Greece, and those he had conversed with in other parts, but he must take upon him to interpose in the affairs of those Churches he had never seen? But such was the largeness of the Apostle's mind, the fervour of his Zeal, the extent of his Charity, that the care of all the Churches was upon him; but especially those which had been planted by his means, al∣though not by his personal endeavours; among which, in all probability, this of the Colossians was one. For this Epaphras whom St. Paul calls a faith∣fulMinister of Christ to them, was imploy'd as an Evangelist under him; and particularly in the Cities of Laodicea, Hierapolis, and Colosse, which were not far distant from each other in Phrygia; and for the Churches there setled, S. Paul testifies, that he had a mighty zeal and concernment: From whence it arose, that hearing of S. Pauls Imprisonment at Rome, he resolves to take a Jour∣ney thither to acquaint him with the State of those Churches, and to desire his Advice and Di∣rection in the present danger they were in, of be∣ing seduced from the simplicity of the Gospel, by the plausible insinuations of false Teachers, who pretended to give them a more refined Systeme of Religion, by a composition of Law and Gos∣pel and Philosophy all together. S. Paul under∣standing

by him the dangerous circumstances they were in, although Epaphras himself was made a Fellow-Prisoner with him; as appears by the Epistle to Philemon, sent at the same time with this; yet  he finds means by Tychicus and Onesimus to convey this Epistle to them. Wherein by an admirable art of insinuation, far above the eloquent exordi∣ums of the Heathen Orators, he lets them under∣stand, how passionately he was concerned for their welfare; and what an Agony he suffered in his own breast f