Meditations and praiers gathered out of the sacred letters and vertuous writers disposed in fourme of the alphabet of the Queene Her most excellent Maiesties name : whereunto are added comfortable  consolations (drawen out of the Latin) to afflicted mindes.


〈1 page duplicate〉〈1 page duplicate〉Meditations and Praiers, gathered out of the Sa∣cred Letters, and Vertu•〈◊〉 Wri∣t•••Disposed i•〈…〉••bet of to〈…〉
〈…〉 Co••out of the L••••〈◊〉••∣cred Mindes.
Multae tribulatione• Iustorum, & de om∣nibus liberabit eos Dominus. Psal. 34.¶ Imprinted at London by William How. An. 1571.
E Elect by will of mightie loue,
in Royall Roumth to sitte:
L Liuyng in Chaste Dianas Lawe,
with Sacred Sabas witte.
I Iuno dis•••ide with stately Rule,
hath 〈◊〉 Heauenly Ma••
Z Zenobia serues •ise Pallas s•••
fayre Venus seekes her gra••
A •lso wi••〈◊〉 Heauenly do••
〈◊〉•••dome to define:
B Bounde 〈◊〉 she be to Natures Law,
or if shee be Diuine.
E Empiring vs vnwoorthy wightes,
whose gratitude may gayne:
T That our renowmd Elizabeth,
H Here Nestors yeeres may raine.
To the Highe, puisant, re∣noumed Princesse of al Vertue, our moste redoubted Soueraigne Lady Elizabeth, of Englande, Fraunce, and Ire∣lande Queene: Defendour of the Christian Faithe: your Maiesties trewe and Loyall seruant Iohn Conwaye, Prayeth all thinges beseeminge the Height of your Royall Desent, Im∣periall Crowne, and dreadefull Di∣gnitie.TReadinge the wea∣ry March of this lothsome Laborynthe, besieged with the horrible Hoste of Satan our Anciente foe: wee finde (moste re∣garded
 Prince) to the blessed Soule, no waie so sure a shielde, and For∣tresse, as the vnspeakeable v•rtu• of daiely Praier: the same deckings mans brickle Body with the per∣fectnesse of true Glory, assistinge his decaied partes with sounde healthe, nourishinge his vitall Spi∣rites with sweete confirmed hope, geuinge the furious Fend of Hell, pininge pounishmente, and moste bitter conflicte: And beinge faith∣full, hūmble, and feruente, is not onely to our Celestial Father, the moste sweete Oblation, and Sacri∣fice,
 but to euery true Christian, a moste blessed comfortable exercise: wherein, as wee laie abroade our yrksome transgressions by naturall defectes to the Almightie, requi∣ringe the Fortresse of his Holy Pro∣misse to defende vs from this poli∣tike, and wicked Warriour. So by often conference as it were, euen with the Deitie it selfe, wee are trained Souldiers to the Battayle of eche affliction.
By Praier, Dispaire is auoided, and the horrible sinne of Presum∣ption ouerth•owen, all Impurenesse
 laide aparte, all Rancour foregot∣ten, and rigorous Enuie dissolued to milde Loue: els shall wee wante the thinges wee praie for.
Then if Praier doothe onely en∣force vs to a reformation of our misdeedes, purchasing vs a stately Mansion in the House of God, free from the heauy yoke of Sinne, and Deathe. The Holy Augustine rightely spake these woordes: Ora∣tio est Animae Sanctae prae∣sidium, Angelo bono Sola∣tium, Diabolo Suppliciū, gratum Deo Obs