The countrie gentleman moderator Collections of such intermarriages, as haue beene betweene the two royall lines of England and Spaine, since the Conquest: with a short view of the stories of the liues of those princes. And also some obseruations of the passages: with diuers reasons to moderate the country peoples passions, feares, and expostulations, concerning the Prince his royall match and state affaires. Composed and collected by Edm. Garrard.


THE COVNTRIE GENTLEMAN MODERATOR.
Collections Of such intermarriages, as haue beene betweene the two Royall Lines of ENGLAND and SPAINE, since the Conquest: with a short view of the Stories of the liues of those Princes.
And also some obseruations of the passa∣ges: with diuers reasons to moderate the Country peoples passions, feares, and expostulations, concerning the Prince his Royall Match and State affaires.
Composed and collected by Edm. Garrard.
AT LONDON: Printed by Edward All-de. 1624.
TO THE RIGHT HONORABLE, HENRY Lord DANVERS, Baron of Dauntesey.RIGHT HONORABLE,IF I (poore and infortunate) should say, that I can no more forget your Noble house, I so long followed, and many Noble fauours from thence receiued: then the children of Captiuity, could forget their owne Ierusalem: if I should tell your Lorship how much I honour you, ioy at your sight, memory, and happines, liberally protesting all this, and much more; it may be thought but superficiall, and the common phrase of indigent men: But God that knoweth the secrets of all mens hearts, can witnes frō mine, it sincerely pro∣ceedeth: If I could doe any thing worthy accep∣tance, I humbly acknowledge, it is due to your Lordship; yet howsoeuer, I here make bolde to put out vnder your Honourable Patronage, these my poore endeuours.
 First, the Title is some way sutable to the con∣dition your Lordship now liueth in, as being (in∣deede) more a Country Lord then a Court: If the Fate and State shall please to haue it otherwise, (Tam marti quam Mercurio) for the seruice of the King, and Countrey, amongst the rest of the Starres placed in that Spheare, your Lordship would at least contribute light: but your daily relieuing of many poore in the Country, where and for which your renowne is, done more to Gods glory then your owne; your Lordships preferment will be in a better Kingdome.
Secondly, the Subiect & Treatise are likewise agreeable to your Lordships loyall disposition, which is only desiring God may be truly honou∣red, all things sute and succeede to the compleat comfort, contentment, & good of the King, Prince and Kingdome: if they amongst their serious af∣faires, shall vouchsafe to looke into this worke. I humbly desire the motiue thereof might bee as from your Lordship, receiuing your fauourable acceptance, pardon for this my boldnes, and to liue esteemed
Your Lordships euer deuoted seruant, Edm. Garrard.To the Reader.I Intend by Gods helpe, and your patience (gentle Reader) to present vnto your view an Abstract of such intermariages as haue