A remonstrance of the most gratious King Iames I. King of Great Britaine, France, and Ireland, defender of the faith, &c. For the right of kings, and the independance of their crownes. Against an oration of the most illustrious Card. of Perron, pronounced in the chamber of the third estate. Ian. 15. 1615. Translated out of his Maiesties French copie.


A
REMONSTRANCE
OF
THE MOST GRATIOVS KING
IAMES I.
KING OF GREAT BRIT∣TAINE,
FRANCE, and IRELAND,
Defender of the Faith, &c. FOR THE RIGHT OF KINGS, AND THE
independance of their Crownes. AGAINST AN ORATION OF
the most Illustrious Card. of PERRON,
pronounced in the Chamber of the
third Estate. Ian. 15. 1615.
Translated out of his Maiesties French Copie.
PRINTED BY CANTRELL LEGGE,
Printer to the Vniuersitie of Cambridge.
1616.
THE PREFACE.I Haue no humour to play the
Curious in a forraine Common∣wealth,
or, vnrequested, to carrie
any hand in my neighbours af∣faires.
It hath more congruitie
with Royall dignity, wherof God
hath giuen me the honour, to prescribe Lawes at
home for my Subiects, rather then to furnish for∣raine
Kingdoms and people with counsels. How∣beit,
my late entire affection to K. Henrie IV.
of happy memorie, my most honoured brother, and
my exceeding sorrow for the most detestable par∣ricide
acted vpon the sacred person of a King, so
complete in all heroicall and Princely vertues; as
also the remembrance of my owne dangers, incur∣red
by the practise of conspiracies flowing from
the same source, hath wrought me to sympathize

with my friends in their grieuous occurrents: no
doubt so much more daungerous, as they are lesse
apprehended and felt of Kings themselues, euen
when the danger hangeth ouer their owne heads.
Vpon whome, in case the power and vertue of my
aduertisments be not able effectually to worke, at
least many millions of children and people yet vn∣borne,
shall beare me witnes, that in these daun∣gers
of the highest nature and straine, I haue not
bin defectiue: and that neither the subuersions of
States, nor the murthers of Kings, which may
vnhappily betide hereafter, shal haue so free pas∣sage
in the world for want of timely aduertisment
before. For touching my particular, my rest is vp,
that one of the maynes for which God hath ad∣vanced
me vpon the loftie stage of the supreme
Throne, is, that my words vttered from so emi∣nent
a place for Gods honour most shamefully tra∣duced
and vilified in his owne Deputies and
Lieutenants, might with greater facilitie be con∣ceiued.
Now touching France; faire was the hope
which I conceiued of the States assembled in Par∣liament
at Paris. That calling to minde the mur∣thers
of their Noble Kings, and the warres of

the League which followed the Popes fulminati∣ons,
as when a great storme of haile powreth down
after a thunder-cracke, and a world of writings
addressed to iustifie the parricides & the dethro∣nings
of Kings, would haue ioyned heads, hearts,
and hands together, to hammer out some apt and
wholsome remedie against so many feare