The tryall, of L. Col. Iohn Lilburn:  at the Sessions House in the Old-Baily, on Fryday, and Saturday, being the 19th and 20th of this instant August. With Lieutenant Collonel Iohn Lilburns speech to the jury before they went together to agree upon their verdict, and the reply of the counsel of the common-wealth thereunto. Together, with the verdict of not guilty brought in by the said jury.


THE TRYALL OF L. Col. Iohn Lilburn AT The Sessions House in the Old-Baily, on Fryday, and Saturday, being the 19th and 20th of this instant AUGUST.
WITH Lieutenant Collonel Iohn Lilburns Speech to the Jury before they went together to agree upon their Ver∣dict, and the Reply of the Counsel of the Common-wealth thereunto.
TOGETHER, With the Verdict of NOT GVILTY brought in by the said Jury.
LONDON: Printed for D. B. 1653.
The last TRYALL OF Lieutenant Collonel Iohn Lilburn.
At the Sessions House in the Old-Baily, on Fryday and Saturday, being the 19 and 20 of this instant August.FRiday the 19 of August, Lievt. Col. Iohn Lilburn appeared again at the Sessions in the Old-Bayly, where my Lord Mayor, Mr. Recorder, and the rest of the Bench being set, and Proclamation made, a Mem∣her of the Court began to speak, saying.
Mr. Lilburn, we are now met again about this busi∣nesse which hath been so long and tedious, and intending that this shall be the last day, desire to hear what you will say to the indictment, Guilty or not Guilty.
Lilburn.May it please your Lordship and this Honou∣rable Bench I have advised with my Councel, and have formerly brought in my Exceptions.
1 Shewing the unlawfulness of that Act of Parliament.
2 That Mr. Primat named in the Act was the principal and yet was not prosecuted.
3 That the Act runs Lievt. Col. Iohn Lilburn, the indict∣ment runs Iohn Lilburn Gent.
My Lord, I have ever been an honourer of the Law e∣ver since I knew what Law was, and I have spent a great deal of pains and study in the Law to find out every tittle thereof, and I find the ancient Laws of this Land to be very just and mercifull, and if I were sure to be tried by the equity and legallity of the Law, I cared not whether I had an hour to live or not, and if I could have but one argument of Law for my life, I would willingly submit, but I cannot find one Line of Law concerning me in all this Act and Indictment.
Mr. Recorder.Mr. Lilburn here is no man desires to take away your Life without the just grounds of Law, &c. There hath been a great deal of time spent Mr. Lil∣burn in this businesse, and if we had not been tender of your life, we should not have spent so much time about it, therefore Mr. Lilburn this being the day that we have set apart for this business, we desire you to plead to the in∣dictment, Guilty or not guilty.
Lilburn.Mr. Recorder, I was never convicted of any crime, and therefore I think by the Law I am not to an∣swer to this indictment, I was never any Felon, or ever committed any felony, I have never robbed any one, or ravished any woman, &c.
Mr. Reco