Verses made by the honourable Lord Arundel of Warder






VERSES made by the Honourable Lord Arundel of Warder.
Persecution no loss.WHat can we lose for him, when all we have
Are but the Bounties which his favour gave;
And which when Sufferings force us to restore,
God only takes them but to give us more;
And by a happy change doth kinder prove,
He takes our Fortune, but he gives his Love.
How vainly should that Begger chide his Fate,
That quits his Dunghil for a Chair of State?
So fares it with Us, when God doth displace
The Gifts of Fortunes for the Gifts of Grace:
God did on sufferings set so high esteem,
He that was chose the lost World to Redeem,
And when his Love and Nature were at strise,
He valued more his Sufferings than his Life:
And shall Opinion have more power to move,
Then his Examples, Doctrine, or his Love?
Love makes Afflictions easie; to complain
Lessens our Merit, and augments our Pain.
Let's humbly then submit to his Design,
And give that freely that we most resign;
So shall our Losses prove the best increase,
Of future Glory, and of present Peace;
—Which grant for thy Passion.

God chastiseth those he loves.IF then the earnest of thy Favours be
Afflictions, good God, let them light on me;
I Glory more in such a kind distress,
Then in all Comforts, where thy Love is less;
And by my Misery I will make it known
In spight of all the world how much I'm thy own;
No fruitful showers shall by the thrifty plant
Be kindlier entertain'd, then scorn and want,
Or loss of Honour, Fortune, or Delight,
Shall be by me, that which once did fright,
And fil'd my troubled mind with care and grief,
Shall be my future Honour and Relief:
I never more will court a smiling Fate,
Since he's so happy that is desolate;
Afflictions shall be easie, for they come
Like friendly showers to drive us sooner home;
Then by thy love such charms are in them found
To cure the Heart which they intend to wound;
Such strange Effects doth Grace in us produce,
As change as well their Nature, as their Use.

Considerations before the Crucifix.WHen I behold thee on that fatal Tree
Sweet Jesus, suffering! and it is for 〈◊〉
When I consider in that purple floud,
My Sins rub'd out, but with thy Life and Bl•••
When I reflect how dear my Soul hath cos•
I'm mov'd to wish it rather had been lost:
For how can that life please, that doth destr••
The life of him of whom we life enjoy?
And to wish thou hadst not suffer'd so,
Were to reproach thy Love and Wisdom too
And if we joy in what thy Death hath brou•••
We must allow the Pains by which 'twas wrou•••
So that our Joy and Grief united lie;
Nature's life is, to have her Maker die.
It is thy Will dear Lord must be obey'd,
And in that Duty both those Debts are paid.
O let my Soul in a due measure find,
A Joy becoming a mourning mind;
A true Joy in thy Will, even whilst it made
Sun shine in Nature, by thy God-head shad•
A grief to see the Torments Sin did merit;
A Man deserv'd God should himself inherit,
That so divided 'twixt thy Pain