Anniversary to the Kings Most Excellent Majesty, Charles the II. on his birth-&-restauration-day, May 29, having resolv'd to marry with the Infanta of Portugall, May the 8th, 1661


 [illustration] יהוהANNIVERSARY TO THE Kings Most Excellent Majesty CHARLES the II. ON HIS Birth-&-Restauration-Day, May 29. Having Resolv'd to Marry with the Infanta of Portugall, May the 8th. 1661.Connubio jungam stabili, Propriamque dicabo.
Virg.
LEt us fall down! and Worship Charles His Ray!
A Sun! that Summer's all our Year to May!
Had Phoebus ever shone so fair as This,
Daphne had scap'd her Metamorphosis.
The Priests oth' East, by th' influence of your Worth,
Mistaking Shrines, shall now Adore the North.

The Guiding-Starr, oth' Man-Childe God, did gaine
Lesse Seekers there, than does our Charles His Waine.
Sol in Aspect with Luna! Loe! a Queen
Comming from farr! fam'd Beauties Magazin!
The Wealth oth' World! the Glory of the Earth!
Fair as the Starr that blaz'd at Charles His Birth!
A Queen of Beauty, Love, and Innocence!
Sweet as the Smoak perfum'd with Frankincence!
A Feature made up of such Harmony,
As Nature had her nicest Symmetry
Reserv'd till now. Her more than Glorious Eye,
Shines like a Diamond set in Ebonye.
Whereat, the God of Love, does Light his Darts
When He resolves the spoyle of sullen Hearts.
Her World-like Head, tress'd with such lovely Brown,
That Every single Hayre deserves a Crown.
Whose All, and Every part, doe so excell,
Plutarch Could ne're have found Her Paralell.
For sure as Heavens have design'd Her Queen,
'Twas onely Charles could Match with Katherine.

Thus like the Southern Queen Shee's drawing on
To Commune with our Wiser Solomon.
VVee'l 'bate the Spice and Camells (Gifts too small)
Bringing Her single Self, She gives Us All.

VVhen two such Planets in Conjunction are
At Every Birth, how Great will be the Starr!

Twice did Our Edward winn the Peoples Love
By Meen, and Person.—Oh how Charles would move!
'Twixt their two Fates the onely difference is
That gain'd it for a Time, for ever, This.
As erst to Caesar, Nations now agree
To yield to One that's more August than Hee.
How timely did the Graecian fall asleep!
Had Hee now Liv'd, there were no Cause to Weep.
Hee little thought the Sea had ever hid
A World, where You should out-doe what Hee did.
How tamely did the Swedish Charles retreat!
And quit the Earth in dread of Charles the Great!
'Tis one Excuse for Atheists, that they view
A Deity, and think there's None, but You.
VVhen two such Planets in Conjunction are,
At Every Birth, how Great will be the Starr!

Blest be this Moneth for ever! Nature's Pride!
VVorth all the Seasons of the Year beside!
A Moneth that such a Flower has brought forth,
As decks the South, and perfumes all the North!
VVhat York and Lancaster could ne're have done,
Till they were well Contracted into One.

This Moneth scarce ownes a Day that hath not shown
More Triumph in it, then in Annalls known.
For un-beholden to his Ushers Shower,
Hee (of himself) affo