An essay, or, A narrative of the two great fights at sea between the English and the Dutch, on the 1, 2, 3 and 4 of June, and on the 25 and 26 of July in the year of our Lord 1666



ESSAY: OR, A NARRATIVE OF THE Two Great Fights at Sea BETWEEN The ENGLISH and the DUTCH, on the 1. 2, 3, and 4. of June, and on the 25. and 26. of July, in the Year of our LORD 1666.
Licensed Aug. 29. 1666. Roger L'Estrange.
LONDON, Printed by E. C. for Henry Brome over against the Dyal in Little-Brittain, 1666.
An ESSAY: OR, A NARRATIVE OF THE Two Great FIGHTS at SEA BETWEEN The ENGLISH and the DUTCH, on the 1, 2, 3, and 4. of June, and on the 25. and 26. of July, in the Year of our LORD 1666.
BE Calm ye Seas, Let a deep Silence creep
O're all your Waves, and Lull the Winds asleep:
Stand and admire the Greatness of each Fleet;
Wonders expect, when such Great Navies meet;
Where Conduct, and where Courage on each Side
Command, and Act, and both in Triumph Ride.
Where the sole Rule of the vast Ocean lies,
At stake, and must become the Victors Prize.
English and Dutch strugling at once to be
Lords of the World, if Conquerours at Sea.

The Dutch Inrag'd with the last Summer's Blow,
Resolv'd now to Revenge that Overthrow;
And what they 'ld then have shun'd by secret Flight,
They now Seek out, and Eager are to Fight.
Flesht with the Princes Absence, who they hear'd,
Off from our Fleet, 'bove Twenty Sail had steer'd,
Found an Occasion better then they Sought,
And were e'en Proud with Conquest e're they Fought.

So Cowards, when Advantage gives them Way,
Dream nothing but to Conquer, Kill, and Slay.

The English (whom great Numbers never Daunt)
Made up with Valour, what in Ships they want.
Valour, Which in each English Brest dares more,
Then Crowds of Dutch at Sea, or French on Shore.
They scarce Discover'd where the Dutch Fleet lay,
But were more Eager of the Fight, then They,
More Full with Courage, then their Sails with Wind,
Flew as they 'ld leave the Winds themselves behind,
And as they Sail'd, loud Shouts of Conquest sent,
To tell their Foes, that They their Ruine meant.
Thinking their Ships yet still to Conquest Slowe,
Breath'd as they went Destruction to their Foe.

The Sun now past his Height, the Fleets Ingage,
Both Sides Resolv'd to Act th' Extreams of Rage.
From the Ships sides the Dreadful Canons Rore,
And on each hand Amaze the trembling Shore;
And Rocks, and Shelves, with such Convulsions shook,
As if they 'd been with some strange Earth-quake strook.
Some ready are to Kill, and some to Dye,
And Arms and Legs as well as Bullets Fly.
Dark Clouds of Smoak arise, and Interpose
'Twixt Heav'n and Them, as if asham'd t' Expose
To Heav'n a Sight so dreadful, or the Sun
Should be Spectactor, whilst such Muscheif's done.
The Seas and Winds both angry grow, and Swell,
To see the Rage of Men should theirs Excell;
Or to appear more Merciful then They,
Strive by their Fury to appease this Fray:
But all in vain. Too Res'lute are the Foes,
The Battle hotter, and still hotter