A relation of the death of David Rizzi chief favorite to Mary Stuart Queen of Scotland; who was killed in the apartment of the said Queen on the 9th of March 1565. Written by the Lord Ruthen [sic], one of the principal persons concerned in that action. Published from an original manuscript. Together with an account of David Rizzi, faithfully translated from Geo. Buchanan's History of Scotland.


A
RELATION
Of the DEATH of
David Rizzi,
Chief FAVORITE to
Mary Stuart Queen of Scotland;
Who was killed in the Apartment
of the said Queen on the 9th of
March 1565.
Written by the Lord RVTHEN, one of
the principal Persons concerned in that
Action.
Published from an Original Manuscript.
Together with an Account of DAVID
RIZZI, faithfully translated from
Geo. Buchanan's History of Scotland.
LONDON, Printed for A. Baldwin
in Warwick-lane. 1699.
Some Remarkable Passages concern∣ing
David Rizzi, translated from
the History of Scotland, written by
George Buchanan. Edit. Edinburg.Folio 207.AMong the Servants of the Court was one
David Rizzi born at Turin: His Fa∣ther
was an honest Man, but so very
poor, that all he could do was to main∣tain
himself and his Family, by teaching the Elements
of Musick. Having nothing to leave to his Children,
he taught them, both Sons and Daughters, to sing.
Of these, David being young and brisk, and trust∣ing
to his Voice that was not disagreable, and to his
Skill in Musick which he had learned from his Fa∣ther,
he resolved to try his Fortune; and in order to
this went to Nice, where the Duke of Savoy, who
had lately been restored to his Dominions, kept his
Court. But Matters there not answering his Ex∣pectation,
he came to be in such extream want, that
he knew not well what to do with himself, when be
hapned to fall in with Signior Moretti, who was then
(as the Duke's Envoy) preparing for his Iourney to
Scotland, he waited on him thither. But being there,
Moretti having but a small Allowance for himself, and
no great need of his Service, dismissed him; however
David resolved to make some stay, and try his Fortune
again: he was chiefly encouraged to this, being told
that the Queen delighted in hearing of Songs, and
was not altogether unskilful in Musick. To make his
way to her, he made an Interest with the Musicians



(who were for the most part French) that he might
appear amongst them. Thus being heard to sing
once or twice, she liked him so well, that he was im∣mediately
added to their Number.
Having got into this Post, and observed the
Queen's humour and way, he, partly by flattering
her, partly by carrying Stories to her of the other Ser∣vants,
came in a little time to be as much in her Fa∣vour
as he was hated by the rest of the Family. How∣ever,
all this good Fortune could not satisfy him; but
having either lessened with the Queen such as seemed
to be on the same foot of Favour with himself, or got
them turned out of the Family by his false Suggesti∣ons,
he began insensibly to aspire to meddle in greater
Matters; till at la