Loues load-starre Liuely deciphered in a historie no lesse commendable than comfortable, for all those that in their louely affections, haue by the enmitie of their friends, bene molested with the menacing meteors of crossing misfortunes. Leading also all kinde and true louers, that in their choyces are frownd at by froward parents, vnto the portfull paradise of pleasurde patience, and patient pleasures. By Robert Kittowe, student.


Loues Load-starre. LIVELY DECI∣phered in a Historie no lesse commendable than comfortable, for all those that in their louely affections, haue by the enmitie of their friends, bene molested with the menacing meteors of cros∣sing misfortunes.
Leading also all kinde and true Louers, that in their choy∣ces are frownd at by froward Parents, vnto the portfull Paradise of pleasurde Patience, and patient Pleasures.
By Robert Kittowe, student.
Ignauis nulla corona datur.LONDON Printed by Th. Creede dwelling in the Old Change, at the
signe of the Eagle and Childe, neare Olde
Fish-streete. 1600.
The Authour to both the captious and the courteous Reader, health.
Reader reuolue not rashly any worke,
On which thy curious eye doth chance to looke;
Better not reade, then (when thou readst) to lurke
Even Critique-like, to braide an Authors booke,
Regard with Souldiers toyle, the Students paine:
That little good hath; often this, lesse gaine.

Know, that the finest Lawne, hath checquered strakes,
In purest Wines, some hoarie dregges are seene;
The squamie rust, verdure from Iron takes;
The fairest Rose, with prickles pluckt hath beene:
One shaft, what Archer may not shoote amisse?
What worke so well, that no where faultie is?
Farewell.Rob. Kittowe.TO ALL GENE∣rous Gentlemen, that fauour the sprin∣ging Flowres of Artes bodily health, and eternall happinesse.GEntles, I haue (with your fauours) deciphered a Load-starre, in whose gleames shine good will, & whose glory is made splendent with loy∣all loues onely grace. Sometime when Eagles haue tried their yong Birds with the Sun-beames, they wil direct their vndazeled eyes to gaze at the bright gleames of Poets, a lesse starre; whose twinkeling sparkelings may encrease their disports. And (gene∣rous hearts) if your eyes that haue viewd the glori∣ous Sun-shine of Artes graces, deigne (after the na∣tures of those mightie and magnanimous byrds) to beholde the dimme twinckeling of this vnperfect Load-starre; you shall not only hereafter giue life to my labors, but by your gentle acceptance, make me bold to aduenture the archtecture of some worthi∣er worke. The subiect, which serues for the Zodiack to this wandring Starre (which cōtinues the yeerly course of the Day-starre, through the twelue Astro∣nomicall

signes) is but meane; and therfore deserues no costly colours to make it seeme splendent: If thē it please any, so much (I account it the better) reckon it you estimable, by how much it can displease none. It may be some Zoylist will barke (as doo Wolues a∣gainst the Moone) following aga