A farewell sermon preached at Great Ayton in the county of Yorkshire by George Evanke ...


A Farewell SERMON Preached at Great AYTON In the County of YORKSHIRE.
GEORGE EƲANKE, Chaplain to the Right Worshipful, Sir George Narwood Baronet at Cleaveland in York-shire.
Printed in the Year, 1663.
To the Reader:POssibly these Papers may fall into the hands of some modish Criticks, who regarding Com∣posure, more then matter, may censure them as defective in the former, as Corrective in the latter.
I have this only to say towards my vindication, that I could have let fall a little more Eloquence and Curio∣sity in the Composure; I could have used a Trope now and then, and have entertain'd your Fancies with some flourishes of Rhetorick: But I consider'd my place, and Calling, which prompted me, to Act not the Orator in the Schooles, but as Preacher in the Church; and that God sent me not to Court, but to Convert; not to catch mens Ears, but their Souls: And therefore I was more studi∣ous of a sanctified then a silver Tongue, whereby I might accommodate you with Material, rather then Ornamen∣tal advantages. And now if these plain truths may be of use to any of the people of God, let them freely take them, and the blessing of the Lord go with them.
Matth. 26.39.Nevertheless not my will, but thy will be done.
THe Subject of this Chapter is a sad Story, and Tragical Relation of a dying Jesus. In the beginning of this Gospel, you may see him coming into the world in a Shower, Matth. 2.13. And now in the end of it, you find him going out in a Storm, Matth. 27.22.
Alas! that so good a Guest should find so bad a welcome, and that the Lord of Life should so soon be put to death. When the Angels, those Heavenly Cho∣risters first sang that Christmas Carol, of a Saviour that was born into the World, Luke 2.10, 11, 12, 13, 14. one would have thought the World should have falen a dancing after such Evangelical Musick, and that all hearts should have [like the Babe in Elizabeths womb] leapt for joy, at the news of a new born Prince: But it was quite contrary; for instead of joyning in that Hea∣venly Quire in gratulating the happy arrival of this young King into their Country; they take the Alarum of his Birth as if an Enemy had landed in their Coasts: And hereupon Herod presently heads an Army, goes out against him, and makes the poor Prince to fly the Country, Mat. 2.13, 14.
But though the meanness of his Birth, Extraction, and Descent may give them distast at first, yet when he begins to display his Divinity among them, by work∣ing such amazing Miracles, as none could work, and Preaching such moving Sermons as none could ever
Preach: O then they will recant their Error, and own their Saviour, and the joyful shout of a King will be heard amongst them, as it is expressed in Numb. 23.21.
Truly one would think that it would have been thus, but oh no, the Rocky hearts of these Marble wretches would not yield, nor melt, nor thaw, nor take impression, but still they continue