The spirituall director disinteressed According to the spirit of B. Francis of Sales, Bishop and Prince of Geneua, Institutor of the Order of the Visitation of our Bl. Lady. By the most Reuerend Father in God Iohn Peter Camus, Bishope of Belley. Translated out of French by A.B.


THE SPIRITVALL DIRECTOR DISINTERESSED.
According to the spirit of B. Francis of Sales, Bishop and Prince of Ge∣neua, Institutor of the Order of the Visitation of our Bl. Lady.
By the most Reuerend Father in God IOHN PETER CAMVS, Bishope of Belley.
Translated out of French by A. B.
 [illustration] 
AT ROAN.
M.DC.XXXIII.
CATHOLICKE READER.THIS SPIRITVALL DI∣RECTOR DIS-INTE∣RESSED, hauing out of his charitie towards vs passed the seas, deserues enterteinmēt. And because his language is vnknowen to many, I will be his Interpretour, to the end his zeale of soules may shine to all, and such fruite be reaped of his wholsome and charitable counsells, as is desired. These lines of mine wanting autho∣ritie
 to moue thee to relish the sweetnes of the Auctour: heare the eloquence of rare Causin of the society of IESVS who hath giuē him, and his workes, this Elogie, in the end of the second part of his holy Court, which flowing from so Reli∣gious, and learned à pen, will be inuitation enough to peruse this worke. His words are these.
I may well saie, I were stupide and vngratfull, if I should not confesse to haue bene much excited, to prosecute this labour by the ho∣nourable Inuitations, which my lord Bishop of Belley hath vsed towards me in his workes. I cānot
 set too high à price vpon his recom∣mendation in such à subiect. For he is verily one of the most able, and flourishing spirits, that euer handled pen. To see the number of his bookes, one might saie, he began to write, so soone as to liue; and to consider their worth, it is à wonder how so many graces, and beauties, which others attaine not but with much labour, increased with him, as in à soile naturall for eloquence. If there be any slight discoursers, who amuse thē∣selues to argue vpon some words of his writings, it is not à matter vnusuall, seeing we are now in an age, where there are some who re∣uiue the example of those cor∣rupted
 Grecians, that preferred à sauce made by the Cooke Mi∣thecus, before the diuine workes of Phidias. More need not be said, read and followe the Direction of this DISIN∣TERESSED, purely, without any other, then thy spirituall, INTEREST.
Farwell.ADVISE TO THE READER.BOTH in the begining, and in the end of this booke, I render à reason, ample enough, of the subiect which gaue it birth; And I satisfie (me thinkes) the obiectiōs which may be made against many points therin by me handled, which might haue serued for matter, and ornament to à preface. I touch here many nice and delicate strings, the euent wher∣of will proue as it shall please the diuine Prouidence. I cannot war∣rant it, I may onely here assure in words of veritie, and Charitie, not fayned; that my intention was
 sincere, and wi