Barbarian cruelty being a true history of the distressed condition of the Christian captives under the tyranny of Mully Ishmael, Emperor of Morocco, and King of Fez and Macqueness in Barbary : in which is likewise given a particular account of his late wars with the Algerines, the manner of his pirates taking the Christians and others, his breach of faith with Christian princes, a description of his castles and guards, and the places where he keeps his women, his slaves and negroes : with a particular relation of the dangerous escape of the author and two English men more from thence, after a miserable slavery of ten years / by Francis Brooks.


Decemb. 8. 1692. Imprimatur, 
Edmund Bohun.Barbarian Cruelty.
BEING A True History of the Distressed Condition of the Christian Cap∣tives under the Tyranny of Mully Ishmael Emperor of Morocco, and King of Fez and Macqueness in Barbary.
In which is likewise given a particu∣lar Account of his late Wars with the Algerines. The manner of his Pirates taking the Christians and Others. His breach of Faith with Christian Princes. A Description of his Castles and Guards, and the Places where he keeps his Women, his Slaves and Negroes.
With a particular Relation of the dangerous Escape of the Author, and two English Men more from thence, after a miserable Slavery of ten Years.
By FRANCIS BROOKS.
LONDON, Printed for I. Salusbury at the Rising-Sun in Cornhil, and H. Newman at the King's Arms in the Poultry. MDCXCIII.
To Their Sacred Majesties, William and Mary, Of Great-Britain, France and Ireland, KING and QUEEN.Most Gracious Soveraigns,AMidst the throng of those weigh∣ty and impor∣tant Cares that fill Your Royal Breasts,
i
it is indeed a high pre∣sumption, in one so in∣considerable as I am, to offer the interrup∣ting them by this Ad∣dress. But since such is your Royal Cle∣mency, as not to deny Access to the meanest of Your Subjects, Per∣mit me, with awful Reverence and Humi∣lity, to lay the ensuing Narrative at Your Majesties Feet, with

hopes You will vouch∣safe to shelter it under Your Royal Patro∣nage.
The deplorable and miserable Condition, wherein many of Your Majesties Subjects, with other Christians, now lie groaning in Slave∣ry, and under the bar∣barous Tyranny and Inhumanity of Mully Ishmael Emperor of
Morocco, is a Subject that may perhaps not altogether be thought unworthy the Cogni∣zance of Your Maje∣sties; it being mani∣fest to all the World how much it has been the Glorious Design of Your Majesties whole Life and Reign, to set Mankind at Liberty, and to free the Distres∣sed from the Yoke of Tyranny and Oppres∣sion.
i
May that Al∣mighty Hand that has framed Your Maje∣sties for the Support and Joy of the Uni∣verse, continue to Crown all Your Affairs with uninterrupted Success, giving You more and more the Hearts of Your Subjects, and the Necks of Your Ene∣mies. And after Your Majesties have reaped many Harvests of
ii
Lawrels, may You plant such an Olive of Peace, under the Bran∣ches whereof all Eu∣rope