Letters of Mounsieur de Balzac. Translated out of French into English. Now collected into one volume, with a methodicall table of all the letters. 1. 2. 3. and 4th parts. By Sr Richard Baker Knight, and others.


LETTERS OF Mounsieur de BALZAC. 1.2.3. and 4th parts.
Translated out of French into English.
BY Sr RICHARD BAKER Knight, and others.
Now collected into one Volume, with a methodicall table of all the letters.
LONDON, Printed for John Williams, and Francis Eaglesfield. At the Crown, and Marigold in S. Pauls Churchyard. 1654.
 [illustration]  [portrait of Jean-Louis de Balzac] LETTERS OF Mounseur de BALZAC, Translated into English by Sr. RICHARD BAKER, and others.LONDON. Printed for John Williams, and Francis E•glesfeild, at the Crown, and Marigold in St. Pauls Church-yard. 1655.
To the Honourable the Lord OF NEVVBURGE, ONE OF HIS MAJESTIES most honourable Privie Councell and Chan∣cellour of the Dutchy of Lancaster.MY Lord, I may perhaps be thought, besides the boldnesse, to be guilty of absurdity, in offer∣ing a Translation to him who so exactly understand∣eth the Originall; & one who if he had a mind to see how it would look in English, were able to set a much fairer gloss upon it, then I have done: yet my Lord, this absurdity may have a good colour; for it may not be unpleasing to you to see your own perfection in the glasse of anothers imperfection, seeing even the best Diamonds seem to take a pleasure in having of foiles. Besides, I have my choice of another colour, for be∣ing to to passe a world of hazard in the censure of the world, I am willing to passe the pikes at first, and account this done, having once passed yours. And to∣wards

it, my Lord, I have two comforts; one for the Reader, that the Authours gold is so much over weight, that though much be lost in the melting, yet it holds out weight enough still, to make it currant: the other, for myself, that by this meanes I may have a testimony remaining in the world, how much I ho∣nour you, and in how high a degree I most affe∣ctionately am,
Your Lordships humble Servant RICHARD BAKER.〈1+ pages missing〉TO THE LORD CARDINALL OF RICHELIEƲ.My LORD,I Here present you Mounsieur Balzac's Letters, which may well be termed new ones, even after the eighth Edition; for though they have long since been in pos∣session of publick favour, yet I may justly say, this is the first time their Authour hath avouched them. The advantagious Judgement you have delivered of him, and the ar∣dor wherewith all France hath followed your approbation, well deserveth his best endeavours toward the perfectionating so ex∣cellent things: I have been solicitous to draw him to this labour, to the end the world might know, that if I be not worthy the share I have in his respects, yet that I have at least been wise e∣nough to make right use of my good fortune, and to cause it to be∣come serviceable to the glory of my Countrey. But truly, were he master of his body, or did his maladies afford him liberty of spirit, he