Approved directions for health, both naturall and artificiall deriued from the best physitians as well moderne as auncient. Teaching how euery man should keepe his body and mind in health: and sicke, how hee may safely restore it himselfe. Diuided into 6. sections 1. Ayre, fire and water. 2. Meate, drinke with nourishment. 3. Sleepe, earely rising and dreames. 4. Auoidance of excrements, by purga. 5. The soules qualities and affections. 6. Quarterly, monethly, and daily diet. Newly corrected and augmented by the authour.


APPROVED
Directions for Health,
both Naturall and Artificiall:
Deriued from the best Physitians
as well moderne as auncient.
Teaching how euery Man
should keepe his body and mind
in health: and sicke, how hee
may safely restore it himselfe.
Diuided
into 6.
Sections1. Ayre, Fire and Water.2. Meate, drinke with nourishment.3. Sleepe, Earely rising and Dreames.4. Auoidance of excrements, by purga.5. The Soules qualities and affections.6. Quarterly, monethly, and daily Diet.Newly corrected and augmented
by the Authour.
The fourth Edition.
LONDON:
Printed by T. S. for Roger Iackson, and are to be
solde at his Shop neere the Conduit in
Fleetestreete. 1612.
TO THE RIGHT
HONOVRABLE, MY
GRATIOVS MOTHER
in Law, the Lady Lettice, VVife to
the valerous and Heroicall Knight,
Sir Arthur Chichester, Lord Du∣putie
of his Maiesties King∣dom•
of Ireland.MADAME, it hath euer beene
a customary fashion among
Students, to chuse out some
noble Personage, eminent for
vertue, vnder the glory of whose name,
their Bookes might walke vp and downe
on the worlds Theater, secured from that
spitefull Spirit of Detraction, whose



blustering blasts of Blasphemie, I lately en∣deuoured
to coniure and conuict. After the
like manner, to be somwhat in the fashion,
loe here I submit before your eyes of Grace
this saplesse Worke of mine, that the starry
influence of your auncient loue may reflect
vpon the darkest parts therof, where per∣haps
the distance of Climate with-holds
your directest beames. I know your Lady∣ship
is stored with far more precious pre∣sents:
onely Dutie herein seemes to free
me from Presumption, in dedicating the
blossomes of my youthfull Studies to One,
who is as wise as I am mindfull, as fa∣uourable
as I am faithfull, and euer will
continue
At your Ladiships command
WILLIAM VAVGHAN.A Table, declaring the Con∣tents
of the Sections and
Chapters of this Booke.The first Section.Chiefe causes and Rules for preseruation
of man health.Chapter 1. OF Ayres for pleasure, health, and profit. Fol. 1Chapter 2. Of Waters, with their kindes. 9Chapter 3. Of Fire, and what kinde is best. 12The second Section.Food and nourishment whats good and
bad.Chapter 1. OF Bread and Drinke of all kindes. Fol. 13Chapter 2. Of Wines of all kindes, and how to choose the best. 19
Chapter 3. Of Dyet drinkes for the sicke and healthy. 28Chapter 4. Of Cyder and Perry, with the vse thereof. 31Chapter 5. Of Flesh, and which is best, and how to preserue it
sweet. 33Chapter 6. Of F