A narrative of the sufferings of James Derkinderen, who was taken prisoner by the Halifax Indians, on the 10th of the 6th mo. (commonly called June) 1759.


A NARRATIVE OF THE SUFFERINGS OF JAMES DERKINDEREN, Who was taken prisoner by the Halifax Indians, on the 10th of the 6th mo. (commonly called June) 1759.
PHILADELPHIA: PRINTED FOR THE PURCHASER. MDCCXCVI.
Printed Verbatim et literatim from the author's manuscript.
The journall of JAMES DERKINDEREN, whome was taken on the 10 of the month comonly calld June, 1759, at Hallifax, by 6 Indians, whome shot and barbarously scalped them two before mine eyes the 3 others a little distance.—THIS 10 of the month I went to the go|vernours iseland to bring up brush for to kiver my 〈◊〉 to spread fish on to dry, it being the Sabbath day, contrary to law or gospell, in a littell schooner who was loded with codfiish But when we got down on the beech somebody called out Indian! whome appeared with their musgets loaded and primed to our great surprise: for my own part I James Derkinderen run into the sea, the salt water as I opened my mouth went into my belly, calling to my Maker to have mercy on me: whome methinks heares the cryes of the poor and distressed now, as in old times, and will not leave us or forsake when we humble cry to him, who has all power both in heaven and earth. Those savages or Indiens pointing their muskets at us, and commanded us to cum into the wood, 2 of them fired at us. and Christoper Dyer of Casco bay was shott and an other man, with buck shott, many in them, and bleed|ing very fast: those Indians came to them and struck the little ax in there heads, and sculped them before my eyes; O dredfull to

behold! as for the boy he run a way, but one Joseph ketched him and brought him back, and then stripped those dying men: pressent|ly I heard the other Indiens fire, and brought the other sculps to us, and their cloaths, lea|ving them on the ground, whome I had to beg for quarters as I had of the others; now thos thre and the other two made 5 sculps a bloody conquest endeed. Loaded their musquets and so sat of I knuw not whither, as it appered for their wigwoms; their 2 cunnoas being halled up into the woods—3 in one, and my self and the boy in the other, those sculps in the bottom of the connoa to sitt on, a bloody carpett indeed, both ter|rable and fritefull—a time of mourning. Presently we landed on an iseland, kitched some birds egs but no appetite to eate—they gave me and the boy some—Lying on our bellyes and mourning much, and weeping bitterly; about an hour after we went on the sea, padling along untill we came to a run of water, waided and got over. We herd there was some Inglish connoes therea|bouts—our lndens loaded their guns, tell|ing me if they saw those connoas they would kill me, but we seed them not—Sometime they cought some trowts, they gave me some, a little left for our support more than they could eate. Parting the trees and brushes to get thru, and so 4 days before we go