143
CLMET3_1_2_143.txt
1780-1850
1825-1849
1840s
1846
Narrative non-fiction
bio
Stories from the Italian Poets, with Lives of the Writers
Leigh Hunt, James Henry
M
1784
Contains some Italian verse
http://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/10885/pg10885.html and http://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/10635/pg10635.txt
01-02-2013
compiled from two files


TO SIR PERCY SHELLEY , BART .


MY DEAR SIR PERCY ,


As I know no man who surpasses yourself either in combining a love of the most romantic fiction with the coolest good sense , or in passing from the driest metaphysical questions to the heartiest enjoyment of humour , - I trust that even a modesty so true as yours will not grudge me the satisfaction of inscribing these volumes with your name .


That you should possess such varieties of taste is no wonder , considering what an abundance of intellectual honours you inherit ; nor might the world have been the better for it , had they been tastes , and nothing more .
But that you should inherit also that zeal for justice to mankind , which has become so Christian a feature in the character of the age , and that you should include in that zeal a special regard for the welfare of your Father 's Friend , are subjects of constant pleasurable reflection to


Your obliged and affectionate


LEIGH HUNT .


PREFACE .


The purpose of these volumes is , to add to the stock of tales from the Italian writers ; to retain as much of the poetry of the originals as it is in the power of the writer 's prose to compass ; and to furnish careful biographical notices of the authors .
There have been several collections of stories from the Novellists of Italy , but none from the Poets ; and it struck me that prose versions from these , of the kind here offered to the public , might not be unwillingly received .
The stories are selected from the five principal narrative poets , Dante , Pulci , Boiardo , Ariosto , and Tasso ; they comprise the most popular of such as are fit for translation ; are reduced into one continuous narrative , when diffused and interrupted , as in the instances of those of Angelica , and Armida ; are accompanied with critical and explanatory notes ; and , in the case of Dante , consist of an abstract of the poet 's whole work .
The volumes are , furthermore , interspersed with the most favourite morceaux of the originals , followed sometimes with attempts to versify them ; and in the Appendix , for the furtherance of the study of the Italian language , are given entire stories , also in the original , and occasionally rendered in like manner .
The book is particularly intended for such students or other lovers of the language as are pleased with any fresh endeavours to recommend it ; and , at the same time , for such purely English readers as wish to know something about Italian poetry , without having leisure to cultivate its acquaintance .


I did not intend in the first instance to depart from the plan of selection in the case of Dante ; but when I c