A new and useful catechism;:  very necessary and teachable both for children and young Christians. : Wherein is contained by way of question and answer a brief discovery ... / by Manasseth King.


A NEW and USEFUL CATECHISM; Very necessary and teachable, both for Children and young Christians.
Wherein is contained, by way of Question and Answer, a brief Discovery of these Things;
1. What is God.2. How he may be known.3. What Man's State is, by reason of the Fall of Adam, and his own actual Sins.4. What Christ is, and the glorious Remedy God hath provided for Sinners, in sending his Son in∣to the World.5. That the Scriptures are the undoubted Mind and Will of God, for Men and Christians to walk by; evident by six Reasons.6. What our Duty is to Christ, in Matter of Wor∣ship and holy Conversation.7. Some few Questions and Answers, relating to the Duty of Children and Servants in particular.
The third Edition, Corected and Amended, with large Additions, by MANASSETH KING, Pastor to the Church of Christ in Coventry.
Parents, bring up your Children in the Nurture and Admoni∣tion of the Lord,
Ephes. 6.4.London, Printed in the Year 1693.
TO THE READER.FOr as much as I have observed, that among the many great and little Books, there have been scarce any that have minded this Work, of publishing any thing tending to the instructing of Youth in the Things of the Lord, in such a way as may be by Parents or Masters easily by way of Question asked, and by way of An∣swer easily learned by Children or Servants: I have therefore, as one of those that bear good-will to the Education of Youth, and the Edification of others; and so far as I know my own Heart, to the eternal Salvation of all whom Jesus Christ hath died for, have singly in this intended the Glory of God, in whose Hand is all our Breaths, and do humbly offer this as tending thereto in this en∣suing Dialogue; desiring that if my Know∣ledg may not be so great as others, nor my Judg∣ment so regulated according to the Scriptures of Truth as others, that it may not prejudice them against what Truth they may find, nor hin∣der, but rather further them to the bringing forth a more excellent Piece of this Nature; and then I am sure God will have the Glory, Souls may have
the Benefit, many Families that too much, yea, I judg sinfully neglect the instructing of their Chil∣dren or Servants under their Charge, receive more Benefit: not knowing, as the Apostle saith, but thou, O Man, mayst save thy Wife. So what knowest thou, O Father, but thou by thy care in bringing up thy Child in the Nurture and Admo∣nition of the Lord, mayest save thy Child, thy Servant; thy Patterns or Examples being daily agreeable to thy Instruction: and thy neglect of this Duty may be sad upon the Day of thy Account, when the Blood of any poor Soul living in thy Fa∣mily may be required at thy Hand, because thou didst not do thy utmost in the use of the Means God hath appointed to reclaim them from Evil, and the Snares of Death, and to bring