Democritus Platonissans, or, An essay upon the infinity of worlds out of Platonick principles hereunto is annexed Cupids conflict, together with the Philosophers devotion, and a particular interpretation appertaining to the three last books of the Song of the soul / by H. More ...



Democritus Platonissans, OR, AN ESSAY UPON THE INFINITY OF WORLDS OUT OF PLATONICK PRINCIPLES. Hereunto is annexed CUPIDS CONFLICT together with THE PHILOSOPHERS DEVOTION: And a Particular Interpretation appertain∣ing to the three last books of the Song of the Soul.
By H. More Master of Arts, and Fellow of Christs Colledge in Cambridge.
〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉
Plat.Pythagoras Terram Planetam quendam esse censuit qui circa solem in centro mundi defixum converteretur. Pythagoram secuti sunt Philolaus, Seleucus, Cleanthes, &c. imò PLA∣TO jam senex, ut narrat Theophrastus.
 Libert. Fromond. de Orbe terrae immobili.CAMBRIDGE Printed by ROGER DANIEL, Printer to the UNIVERSITE. 1646.
To the Reader.READER,IF thou standest not to the judgement of thine eye more then of thy reason, this fragment may passe favourably, though in the neglectfull disguise of of a fragment; if the strangenesse of the argument prove no hinderance. INFINITIE of WORLDS! A thing monstrous if assented to, and to be start∣led at, especially by them, whose thoughts this one have alwayes so engaged, that they can find no leisure to think of any thing else. But I onely make a bare proposall to more acute judge∣ments, of what my sportfull fancie, with pleasure hath sug∣gested: following my old designe of furnishing mens minds with varietie of apprehensions concerning the most weigh∣tie points of Philosophie, that they may not seem rashly to have settled in the truth, though it be the truth: a thing as ill beseeming Philosophers, as hastie prejudicative sentence Po∣liticall Iudges. But if I had relinquishd here my wonted self, in proving Dogmaticall, I should have found very noble Patro∣nage for the cause among the ancients, Epicurus, Democritus, Lucretius, &c. Or if justice may reach the dead, do them the right, as to shew, that though they be hooted at, by the Rout of the learned, as men of monstrous conceits, they were either ve∣ry wise or exceeding fortunate to light on so probable and speci∣ous an opinion, in which notwithstanding there is so much dis∣ficultie and seeming inconsistencie.
Nay and that sublime and subtil Mechanick too, Des-Chartes, though he seem to mince it must hold infinitude of worlds, or which is as harsh one infinite one For what is his mundus indefinitè extensus, but extensus infinitè? Else it sounds onely infinitus quoad nos but simpliciter finitus. But if any space be left out unstuffd with Atoms, it will hazard the dissipation of the whole frame of Nature into disjoynted dust. As may be proved by the Principles of his own Philoso∣phie.And that there is space whereever God is, or any actuall and self-subsistent Being, seems to me no plainer then one of the〈 in non-Latin alphabet