The sovereign God acknowledged and blessed, both in giving and taking away. A sermon occasioned by the decease of Mrs. Deborah Prince, on Friday July 20. 1744. In the 21st year of her age. Delivered at the South Church in Boston, July 29. Being the Lord's-Day after her funeral. : With a brief account of the dealings of God towards her; especially in the time of her sickness and passing through the valley of the shadow of death. / By her father. ; [Four lines of Scripture texts]


Mr. PRINCE'S SERMON Occasioned By the DEATH of His eldest Daughter.
The Sovereign GOD Acknowledged and Blessed, both in Giving and Taking away. A SERMON Occasioned By the DECEASE of Mrs. Deborah Prince, On Friday July 20. 1744. In the 21st Year of her Age. Delivered At the South Church in BOSTON, July 29. Being the LORD'S-DAY after her Funeral. With A BRIEF ACCOUNT of the Dealings of GOD towards Her; especially in the Tie of her Sickness and Passing through the Valley of the Shadow of Death.
By Her Father.
Psal. xxxvi. 9.In thy Light shall we see Light.
Zech. xiv. 7.It shall coe to pass, that at Evening Tie it shall be Light.
Psal. xxxiv. 2.The Huble shall hear thereof, and be glad.
BOSTON, Printed by ROGERS and FOWLE for T. RAND in Cornhill. 1744.
The Sovereign GOD Acknowledged and Blessed, both in Giving and Taking away.JOB I. 21.The LORD gave, and the LORD hath taken away; Blessed be the Nae of the LORD.
THIS is the latter Part of the first Speech of Job, on the surprizing Loss, not only of his Estate; but also and ore especially his Children, who no doubt were vastly the ost dear to Hi, and their awful and sudden Death by far the ost afflicting.
See how bitterly He bewails their Loss in Chapter xxix. 2—5. Oh that I were as in Months past, as in the Days when GOD preserved e! when his Candle shined upon y Head, and when by his Light I walked through Darkness! as I was in the Days of y Youth, when the Secret of GOD was upon y Tabernacle! when the AL∣MIGHTY was yet with e! when MY CHILDREN were about e.
While one in haste was telling Hi, the Sabaeans had taken away his Oxen and Asses and slain his Servants work∣ing with the; another coes and tells Hi, the Fire of GOD had fallen fro Heaven and burnt up both his Sheep and Servants with the: while this was speaking, runs a third and tells Hi, the Chaldaeans had carried away

his Caels and slain his Servants attending the: and while this was speaking, coes a Fourth with ore sur∣prizing News than all— How a Great Wind had blown down the House where his CHILDREN were aking erry, and killed the also.
This last Message, as a udicious Expositor observes, was by the Policy of Satan reserved to the last, (1) Be∣cause the Tidings for the Loss of his Goods would not have been so grievous, had He heard of his Children's Death before, to who He hoped to have left the: And indeed when a Man lies under a Great Affliction, a Less is not uch inded. (2) Because when he was ore and ore surpriz'd and pressed with the forer heavy and successi