A postil or orderly disposing of certeine epistles vsually red in the Church of God, vppon the Sundayes and holydayes throughout the whole yeere. Written in Latin by Dauid Chytræus, and translated intoo English by Arthur Golding. Seen and allowed according too the order appoynted



A POSTIL or orderly dispo∣sing of certeine Epistles vsually red in the Church of God, vppon the Sundayes and Holydayes throughout the whole yéere.
Written in Latin by Dauid Chytraeus, and translated intoo English by Arthur Golding.
Seen and allowed according too the order appoynted.
Jmprinted at London, by Henrie Bynneman.
for Lucas Harrison and George Bishop.
Anno Domini. 1570.

¶ To the ryght honourable Sir VValtar Myldmay Knight, Chan∣celour of the Queenes Maiesties court of Exche∣quer, and one of hir highnesse most honorable priuie counsel. Arthur Golding wisheth health, prosperitie, and encrease of all godly knowledge, with long continuance in the same.RIght honorable, for∣asmuch since the comming foorth of the Postill of Hemingius vpon the Gospelles in English, the good liking of his wholesome doctrine, and his well handling thereof too the playne vnderstanding, euen of the simple and too the profita∣ble edifying of al sortes, haue cau∣sed many too reade the same with great willingnesse and diligence: The partyes that were the procu∣rers of that benefite too their Countrey, haue with like good meening requested me to adde some Postill or exposition vpon the Epistles also to the intent that the well disposed Reader might haue more full in∣struction in those partes of scripture which are most vsually & conti∣nually red in the Christen Churches. In performance wherof, (vppon the speciall good report and commendation of such as are lerned) I haue translated this Postill (or, as the Author himself termeth thē, these disposements) of Dauid Cythraeus, conteyning in ground and substance of matter, the selfsame things that the other worke dooth: Howbeit, handled and disposed after another sort. For neyther vseth he so many subdiuisions as dooth Hemingius: and besydes that, hee conueyeth his matters intoo the manner of Sermons methodically, disposed after the order of Rhethoricke, instructing the Reader tooframe the partes of his oration aptly, and too enlarge the same plentu∣ously, according as oportunitie of tyme, persone, and matter shall re∣quire. Also in such places as haue any darke phrases or hid sense, he expoūdeth the woords grāmerlike, opening the propreties of the tūgs and the figuratiue speeches, wherby he giueth great light to the text. Agein, in diuers cases he draweth the matters into forme of Argu∣ments after the manner of Logicke, too the intent the Reader should looke throughly intoo the matter, and wey it accordingly. In whiche respects although this woorke may seeme more necessarie for the ler∣ned (or at least wyse for such as bee well entered in the liberall artes, and foreward in knowledge) than for the simple and meaner sorte: yet notwithstādin