Miscellanies, viz. I. The time-piece; or, An honest servant's advice to his master. II. Verses on the month of May. III. An affectionate father's dying advice. : [Three lines of Latin verse]


MISCELLANIES, VIZ.
I. The Time-Piece; or, An honest Servant's Advice to his Master.II. Verses on the Month of May.III. An affectionate Father's dying Advice.Frugibus maturis, frumentandum
Ferro candente, elaborandum,
Quippe tempus elabitur.
PHILADELPHIA: Printed for the AUTHOR, by John M'Culloch. M.DCC.XC.
An Honest Servant instructing his Master in a Lesson of the great|est Weight and Importance.Ask now the beasts, and they shall teach thee; and the fowls of the air, and they shall tell thee: or, speak to the earth, and it shall teach thee; and the fishes of the sea shall declare it unto thee.JOB xii. 7, 8.A verse may find him who a sermon flies,
And turn delight into a sacrifice.
HERBERT.
MY Master, and my worthy friend,
Soon, very soon, your time must end;
Observe how swift your moments pass,
Man is cut down, just like the grass.
The weaver's shuttle swift doth fly,
Man's time as swift for him to die.
Then take good heed, in time be wise,
And God will give the heav'nly prize.
Walk carefully in God's good ways,
And peace shall crown your happy days.
I measure time both day and night,
Observe my hands, that I go right:

Attentively wind up my chain:
Thus you instruction shall obtain.

I am compos'd of steel and brass;
You, flesh and blood, a heavy mass.
My frame is delicate and nice,
The curious art of man's device;
Which to describe in ev'ry part,
Exceeds indeed my feeble art.
My main spring, of the purest steel,
Doth keep in action ev'ry wheel;
When that doth fail my motion's dead,
Like man, when once his soul is fled.
The hand that made you is divine,
To his just will you must resign.
As far your form doth mine surpass,
As purest gold the common brass:
The first rate surgeon can't explain
Each curious vessel, nerve, and vein.
When you are mould'ring in the grave,
Some other master I shall have,
Whose faithful servant I shall prove,
And be an object of his love.

From earth you came, to earth you go,
Your endless portion bliss or woe:
Be careful, then, to husband time,
Like stars in glory you shall shine.
Receive advice for your own good;
Then watch and pray, have faith in God.
Grace better is than gold refin'd,
Or precious stones of any kind:
No jewels of the purest gold
Gan vie with wisdom, we are told,

Nor all the things thou canst desire,
Your heart can wish for, or admire.
Let this be precious in your eyes,
Ten thousand worlds below the prize.
A lively faith that works by love,
The man who hath, God doth approve,
The worldly riches are but toys,
Compar'd with Christ's celestial joys.
When God gives peace, who can annoy,
Or take away your sacred joy?
Why all this toil for earthly wealth?
When riches yield no peace or health.

My service is to you confin'd;
Your's is to God and man design'd.
This wicked world you soon must leave,
A crown of joy may y