For every individuall member of the honourable House of Commons. Concerning the major, magstracy, and officers of Dover.


For every individuall Member of the Honourable House of Commons. Concerning the Major, Magstracy, and Officers of Dover.SIR,BEing incouraged by former presidents to you seve∣rally presented, and by your favourable receiving thereof and prosecution therein for divers of my Brethren, fellow-souldiers, and Citizens; It hath likewise imboldened me who am a free-borne English-man, and free Denizon, who am thereby intitu∣led unto equall priviledge with any of my rank, or discent, by which the Freedome and Liberties of the Lawes of England are intailed to me and mine, borne in England, or to be hereafter borne: besides, the right that I have by right of Conquest, and as 23. October, 1642. 1 part of your Book of Declar. pag. 660. and our Trustees in Parliament then declared, they were ready to lay downe their lives to preserve, affirming our Laws and Liberties the greatest earthly treasure we could or can here possesse, and likewise adjudged those who would not help in the day of their straights prophane Esaus, who would sell their birth-rights, and vassallage •heir posterity. Now before this time God stirred me •p to stand and act for Englands freedome, and Parlia∣ments Priviledge, who had inabled me to withstand the •llegality of Ship-money, and other abuses offered my •eare Countrey-men, and fellow-Citizens, as also in the •ower of London to withstand hainous things of a de∣•tructive nature to the Subjects Priviledge, where I lived Anno 1638. and were by some there practised, and be∣•ause I would not consent thereunto, I lost my Tower-place, and profits, as I have in other places done seve∣•all times since, and am like now to lose my Lease of •7. years to come, and benefit of my Trade by those mens oppression and violence in Dover; also God made me •ctive and couragious both at home and abroad, in those Martiall abilities I was blest withall of, or from him, as
 Mr. Corbet and many others may yet please to re∣member.
I am confident some hundreds yet can testifie what time the House removed to Grocers-hall, in which servi∣ces (for my native Countreyes Liberty, and Countrey∣mens safety, and Priviledges of Parliament) I have spent and lost a faire estate, which London the place of my birth and kindred, is sensible of; yet God hath been pleased to keep me faithfull, and to uphold my spirit through all tyrannicall defrauding, oppressions and ille∣gall imprisonments I have seen, felt, and been under, both in London and many other places, indeed rather the subject of a book then a letter, and I never was re∣warded or gratified with any place to restore my losses, neither have I pursued the same, but have laboured ho∣nestly for bread for my wife and daughter, whom in the worlds eyes are undone by my zeale for my Coun∣treyes good, rather then to live on the Nations losse, which good I have alwaies promoted before my owne interest, or earth