An accurate description of the United Netherlands, and of the most considerable parts of Germany, Sweden, & Denmark containing a succinct account of what is most remarkable in these countries, and necessary instructions for travellers : together with an exact relation of the entertainment of His Most Sacred Majesty King William at the Hague / written by an English gentleman.


AN ACCURATE
DESCRIPTION
OF THE
United Netherlands,
And of the most considerable Parts of
Germany, Sweden, & Denmark.
CONTAINING
A succinct Account of what is most
Remarkable in these Countries: And
Necessary Instructions for Travellers.
Together with an Exact
RELATION
Of the ENTERTAINMENT of
His Most Sacred Majesty
King WILLIAM
At the HAGUE.
Written by an English Gentleman.
LONDON: Printed for Timothy Childe at the
White-Hart in St. Paul's Church-yard 1691.
THE
PREFACE.HAVING often Observed, that Re∣lations
of Travels, Voyages, &c.
are generally very Acceptable to the
Genius of the English Nation, I
judged that it might not be altogether Imperti∣nent
to give a brief Account of some remarkable
Observations made during my Abode in Foreign
Countries, especially having Travelled for the
space of Sixteen Years through Holland, Ger∣many,
Sweden, Denmark, and other conside∣rable
Parts of Europe.
I easily foresee, that it will be soon Objected,
that after so great a Man as Sir William Temple,
who hath already Published a full and incompara∣ble
Description of the Policy and Government of
the States of the United Provinces, it would
be a vain Presumption to attempt any farther on
that Subject. However, without derogating from
his Honour, I have here inserted divers particular
Remarks, not mention'd by him, but such as Tra∣vellers
may make Use of to very good purpose,
for whose Information this small Essay is chiefly

design'd. And it will be the more eminently
Useful at this time, in respect of the great num∣ber
of English Gentlemen, that now Travel that
way. Wherefore I doubt not, but this will be a
sufficient Plea to cover me from the Imputation of
Vanity, and to make it appear, that what I have
here perform'd, is only intended for the publick
Service in general, and the particular Assistance
of those Gentlemen, who shall hereafter Travel
through these Countries. The Lists of the Passage
Boats and Wagons in Holland, with the Hours of
their going off, which I have inserted, the Tra∣veller
will find extreamly Useful.
As for the Relation of the Kings Voyage to
Holland, annexed at the end. I Confess indeed,
That it deserves to be Written by an abler Hand;
but being at that time at the Hague, I was in∣duced
by Curiosity, to take an exact Account of
this so extraordinary a Solemnity, which I did at
first for my own private Use, but have now Pub∣lished
it through the importunity of some Friends.
The Prospects of the Triumphal Arches, Pyra∣mids,
&c. are exactly Copied from the Original
Draughts taken at the Hague, and are the true
Representations of them.
A
DESCRIPTION
OF
HOLLAND:
With som