The memoires of Mr. James Wadswort [sic], a Jesuit that recanted discovering a dreadful prospect of impiety, in the blasphemous doctrines (or Gospel) of the Jesuits, with their atheistical lives and conversations / faithfully published to the world out of the authors own original notes, with the particular places, persons, and circumstantial actions &c., of which he himself was both an eye and ear-witness from time to time.


〈1 page duplicate〉〈1 page duplicate〉THE MEMOIRES OF Mr IAMES WADSWORT, A IESUIT that RECANTED:
DISCOVERING A dreadful Prospect of Impiety, in the Blasphemous Doctrines (or Gospel) of the IESUITS, with their Atheistical Lives and Conversations.
Faithfully published to the World out of the Authors own Original Notes, with the particular Places, Persons, and Circumstantial Actions, &c. of which himself was both an Eye and Ear-Witness, from time to time.
LONDON, Printed by Henry Hills for Henry Brome, at the Gun at the West end of St. Pauls. 1679.
Licensed,
WILLIAM IANE.Ian. 31. 1678/9.THE CONTENTS.CHAP. I.THe occasion of his whole Family's turning Papists, and of his Education in Spain, and the Colledge of the Jesuits at St. O∣mers; with a full relation of their man∣ner of Discipline in those Schools: Lay∣ing a Foundation to all Superstition and Idolatry; tending to the great Degeneracy of the English Gentry, and others.CHAP. II.THeir Order of the Virgin Mary unbow∣ell'd, with the Garbage of intollerable Bla∣sphemies in that their New Gospel.CHAP. III.THe several Orders of the Jesuits, and their demeanor therein.CHAP. IV.THeir Stratagems to prevent Revolters from their Societies, and to draw in simple Novices.CHAP. V.THe true description of that famous Mona∣stery, or House of the King of Spains, called the Escurial, the Worlds Wonder.CHAP. VI.THe bloody and cruel Projects of the Jesuits Cabal, and of their Enchantments, &c. in the secret Vaults of their Societies.CHAP. VII.THe reasons why this Gentleman left them, and turned Protestant, and the miseries he be suffered by the Iesuits and others, before he arrived into England.THE MEMOIRES OF Mr. IAMES WADSWORT, A Jesuit that Recanted, &c.CHAP. I. The occasion of his whole families turning Papists, and of his Education in Spain and the Colledg of the Iesuits at St. Omers: with a full relation of their manner of Discipline in Those Schools; laying a foundation to all Superstition and Idolatry; tend∣ing to the great Degeneracy of the English Gentry, and others.I Was born in the year 1604 in the County of Suffolk, in the Reign of our late Royal Sovereign, whose Eminency of vertues procured the wonder of all other Nations, and the Glory of ours. My Father was a Student in Emanuel Colledg in Cam∣bridg, where the University and his own merits invested him with a degree of Batchelor in Divinity, and his Ma∣jesty preferr'd him to be a double benefic't man in Cotton and great Thome, in the County aforesaid, and Chaplain and Ordinary to the Bishop of Norwich, and after that,

his Majesty s