A collection, or catalogue of our English writers on the Old and New Testament either in whole or in part : whether commentators, elucidators, adnotators, or expositors : at large or in single sermons ...


Imprimatur,
Geo. Stradling Rev. in Christo Pat. Gilb. Episc. Londin. à Sac: Domest.Ex AEd. Sabaud.Jul. 13. 1662.AN EXACT COLLECTION OR CATALOGUE OF our ENGLISH WRITERS On the Old and New TESTAMENT, Either in Whole, or in Part: Whether Commentators, Elucidators, Adnotators, or Expositors, At large, or in Single Sermons.
Very usefull for any ones Information as to what hath been Writ upon any part of the Holy Scriptures.
LONDON, Printed by R. Davenport for John Williams at the Crown in St. Pauls Church-yard, MDCLXIII.
The PREFACE to the READER.HAving the Copie of this book (to the compiling of which severall persons of quality concurred, and tra∣velled therein for the space of thirty years and more)

delivered me, together with the desires of divers for its emission; I could do no less (for their satis∣faction, as also, for that having communicated it to others 'twas entertained with general appro∣bation,) then contribute my as∣sistance thereunto. And finding that it will be of very consi∣derable use, I shall not doubt, but what was thus desirable whilst an embrio, will be much more complacent now in its swathing cloaths.
As touching the usefulness of books, of this nature there needs no enlargment, this being done to my hand, by divers in their Epi∣stolary and Prefationary discour∣ses; besides, any man knows, an Artificer cannot work without tools, nor any man be a good Clerk without books, the old Proverb is haurit aquam cribris Clericus abs{que} libris. Now as to the gene∣rality of learning we have a large furniture from Photius, Gesne∣rus, Simlerus, Schottus, Cle∣sius, Draudius, Bolduanus, Fabianus Justinianus, Ale∣gambe,

Catalog. Oxon. Sio∣nensis, &c. For the particu∣larity, Theological Voetius, Scriptural Resodnerus, Ma∣thematical Sempilius, Medicks Vander Linden, Chimicks Borellius, and of our own Coun∣try men, who are as eminent for Learning in its several kinds as any in Europe, we have Pits, Bale, Mansel, & others, who have taken infinite pains, and to excellent purpose in this kind. And the truth is, what better way for communicating the treasures of Arts and Sciences is there

imaginable? Would we be brought into acquaintance with books of all sorts? Would we satisfie our cu∣riosities? Would we furnish out a Library? no readier way, this doth it. But, though we have accommodations as to the general, yet want we that which will be as profitable to us as any of the for∣mer, if not more, I mean a Cata∣logue of our English Writers of the holy Scriptures in particular, such as have treated upon the whole, or part, (viz.) Commenta∣tors, Adnotators, Expositors, single Sermons, and translated

pieces. We may know that we have from amongst us men, renowned for their eminent piety, their profound learning, their indefa∣tigable labours, their