The true divinity of Jesus Christ; evidenced in a discourse at the public lecture in Boston, the day after the commencement, July 16, 1761. And published at the desire of the hearers. / By John Barnard, A.M. Pastor of a church in Marblehead. ; [Two lines of Scripture texts]


Mr. Barnard's DISCOURSE PREACHED At the Public Lecture in Boston, 16 July 1761.
THE True Divinity of JESUS CHRIST; Evidenced in a DISCOURSE AT The Public Lecture in Boston, The Day after the Commencement, July 16, 1761. And Published at the Desire of the Hearers.
By JOHN BARNARD, A.M. Pastor of a Church in MARBLEHEAD.
I, even, I, am JEHOVAH, and beside me there is no SAVIOUR.
Isa. 43. 11.The Man that is my Fellow, saith the Lord of Hosts.
Zec. 13. 7.BOSTON: N. E. Printed and Sold by EDES and GILL. MDCCLXI.
The true Divinity of JESUS CHRIST.I. JOHN V. 20.This is the true GOD.THE Belief of the Being of an intelligent Agent, eternally self-〈◊〉, and inde|pendent, the first Cause of all Things, the supream Governour of all Worlds, to whom all national Agents must be accountable, is the only sure and solid Foundation of all Religion: for he, that cometh to God, must believe that he is, and that he is a Rewarder of them that diligently seek him. The just Conceptions in our own Minds of the true GOD include in them every possi|ble Excellency, and that in the highest Degree of Perfection; and may well strike us with the pro|foundest Aw and Reverence, inspire us with the most fervent Love and Complacency, and excite us to the highest Obedience and deepest Submission.
BUT of what high and mighty, of what illustri|ous and august Person does the inspired Writer here most strongly affirm? This is the true GOD. This seems to be the only Thing necessary to be enquired into, that we may come into a clear and full Under|standing of the Words now read. And it appears, to me, a Matter of no great Difficulty, to attain to a sa|tisfactory Answer to the Enquiry, if we do but im|prove our common unbiased Reason, in a close Atten|tion

to the Apostle's own Language, in the Verse which contains the Words of our Text. Says he, We know that the Son of God is come, and hath given us an Understanding that we may know him that is true; and we are in him that is true, even in his Son Jesus Christ; this is the true God, and eternal Life. We know that the Son of God is come. There is no Difficulty in understanding, the Son of God is come, to mean our LORD JESUS CHRIST, who is the SON OF GOD, and hath appeared in this our World; for the Words cannot be understood of any other. And hath given us an Understanding, (a thinking, reason|ing Mind,) that we may know him that is true, (or the true one). The Connection plainly shews that he speaks of the SON of GOD giving us an Understanding, (an enlightened Mind,) that we may know him that is true, or the true one. And adds the Apostle, we are in him that is true; that is, by Faith engrafting us into JESUS CHRIST. For that he intends JESUS CHRIST by the SON of GOD, a