The parson's counsellor with the law of tithes or tithing in two books : the first sheweth the order every parson, vicar, &c. ought to observe in obtaining a spiritual preferment, and what duties are incumbent upon him ... : the second shews in what manner all sorts of tithes, offerings, mortuaries, and other church-duties are to be paid ... / written by Sir Simon Degge, Kt.


THE Parson's COUNSELLOR, WITH THE LAW OF TITHES or TITHING. In Two BOOKS:
The First sheweth, the Order every Parson, Vi∣car, &c. ought to observe in obtaining a Spiritual Preferment, and what Duties are incumbent up∣on him after the taking the same, and many o∣ther things, necessary for every CLERGY-MAN to know and observe.
The Second shews in what manner all Sorts of Tithes, Offerings, Mortuaries and other Church-Duties are to be paid, as well in LONDON as else where, and as well by the Canon as Common and Statute Laws, and in what Courts and man∣ner they may be recovered, what Charges they are subject to, and many other things concerning the same, necessary for CLERGY-MEN and all others to know.
Written by Sir SIMON DEGGE Kt.
LONDON, Printed for Henry Twyford in Vine-Court Middle-Temple. MDCLXXVI.
I do Allow the Print∣ing of this Book
Fra. North.TO THE RIGHT HONOURABLE AND RIGHT REVEREND FATHER in GOD THOMAS, LORD BISHOP OF Lichfield and Coventry.My Lord,I Thought to have sent this Trifle into the World without Patron, or Authors Name to it, but 'tis well
known, how scandalous it is to that Child, whose Pa∣rent is ashamed to own it; I therefore resolved to run the Censure of a Critical World, and then observing how antient Dedications have been both by Greek and Latine Authors, and that they are continued to this day throughout all Christendom, I resolved not to be singular: and then con∣sidering, that this little Ʋn∣dertaking was performed at the Request of some reve∣rend Clergymen of Your Lordships Diocess, and that
it was nursed up to what it is now presented to your Lordship there likewise, I conceived it could not chal∣lenge the Patronage of any other more properly than of Your Lordship; and there∣fore such as it is, I here humbly present it to Your Lordship: My Lord, at first I designed no more but the Second Part of what it now is, but observing Your Lordships diligent and great care at Your Lord∣ships Primary Visitation at Derby against Simony, Dilapidations and Non∣residence,
the three great Pests in the Church, I ad∣ded three Chapters upon those Subjects, and after ad∣ding one thing after ano∣ther, it came to make a di∣stinct Part of this Work a∣lone. My Lord, Your Lord∣ship has had many Honou∣rable and Worthy Prede∣cessors, and I cannot forbear to mention to Your Lord∣ship, Your immediate Pre∣decessor my Lord Bishop Hacket, with what indefa∣tigable Industry did he re∣pair, or rather re-edifie the Church at Lichfield, which
he happily lived to finish, a Work could hardly have been performed by any o∣ther; how circumspectly, prudently and diligently did he govern