A sermon preached at Henly at the visitation on the 27. of Aprill, 1626 Vpon those words of the 9. Psalme, vers. 16.


A SERMON PREACHED AT HENLY AT THE VISI∣tation on the 27. of Aprill, 1626.
VPON THOSE WORDS OF the 9. Psalme, Vers. 16.
The Lord is knowne to execute iudgement. [illustration]  [printer's device(?) of head of woman wearing headdress] 
OXFORD, Printed by J. L. and W. T. 1626.
TO THE RIGHT WORSHIPFVLL AND worthily disposed Knight, Sir RICHARD BLVNT, High Sheriffe of Oxford-shire: Grace be multiplied in this world, and blessednesse in the world to comeVVorthie Sir,WHat hath beene for∣merly offered to your religious Eare, is now within a few daies af∣ter presented to your iudicious Eye; neither doubt I but as then it found attentiue audi∣ence with the one, so it will now finde kinde welcome and acceptance with the other.
 Only you will imagine what was then de∣livered by voice can never bee carried so powerfully in papers as in speech. Solet ac∣ceptior esse sermo vivus quàm scriptus, saith Ber∣nard, the habit and gesture of a liuing man is the very life of Oratory. Yet will I not de∣spaire of that good content a review may bring to a longing spirit. The words contei∣ned in the two Tables which God gaue to Moses from the holy mount were first spo∣ken by the mouth of God ere they were writ∣ten by the finger of God, and then carried in∣to the valley to be heard and kept of all the people. So may I likewise say of the Gospel, voices and prophesies went of the blood of Christ ere ever it dropt out of his veines. But if gratious words had not fallen from the mouth of Christ, Christians had neuer con∣ceived either the power or vertue of his death. For as there is a blood of redemption, so there is a word of reconciliation, and surely where the word teacheth not, there the blood droppeth not. You are religiously wise to conceaue whereat I aime: to wit, that rea∣ding, preaching, and practising of pietie,
 may all goe together like Saul and Ionathan, of whom its said, that they were louely in their liues, and at their deathes were not di∣vided. I am sure they are the best meanes to escape those iudgements I came withall in that Visitation discourse. Which, I am made beleeue by many of my brethren & those of worth, so well rellished in the first pas∣sage, that I must not deny you a review. I was never ambitious herein, as well vnder∣standing mine own meannesse; nay my pri∣vacie hath beene a second happinesse to me. But yet after the Cleargies dinner (whereof you were pleased to partake, and among the Lords Prophets, as before you had spent one houre in the Church, so you ioyed to spend another in the Chamber: a high argument of an intire zeale) so many importunities grew vpon me from some, tendering me their hands for the transcribing hereof from o∣thers, vndertaking you should not faile in regard of that interest they might challenge in me, from all iointly soliciting for a gene∣rall favour, that at length I yeelded to send it assoone as a marr