Miscellanies in five essays ... the four last by way of dialogue / by Jeremy Collier ...


Miscellanies:
In Five
ESSAYS.
I. Vpon the Office
of a Chaplain.II. Vpon Pride.III. Vpon Cloaths.IV. Vpon Duelling.V. Vpon General Kindness.The Four last
By way of DIALOGUE.
By IEREMY COLLIER, M. A.
LONDON,
Printed for Sam. Keeble at the Turks-head in
Fleetstreet, and Io. Hindmarsh at the Golden
Ball over against the Royal Exchange in
Cornhill. 1694.
To the Reader.'TIs some Years since the Publication of this
small Treatise: I am still convinced the
Interest of Religion is not a little concern'd in the
Enquiry. The Office lies among Persons who have
a great force upon Custom and Practise: And where
the Motion is strong, the Direction should be well
secured. 'Tis true Milton treats the Argument as
he does the King, with great Contempt: But to
be ill used by such a Hand, and in such Company,
is rather an Honour than otherwise. The Scrip∣ture
(says this Man) owns no such Order, and
therefore they must be left to the Examina∣tion
the Sons of Sceva met with. Bishops or
Presbyters we know, and Deacons we know,
but what are Chaplains? (Eiconocl. p. 163.) He
might have answered in his own Words, (p. 164.)
That they were Houshold Priests; and given an
Instance from the Old Testament. For there we
find that Micah entertain'd a Levite with Salary
and Diet; and after all told him, he should be
a Father, and a Priest to him. (Iudg. 17. 10.)
It seems he did not think he had hired a
Servant with his ten Shekels. As for the Hea∣then,
They had a Modester Sense of Religion than
to rob their Gods of their Ministers, and make
them their own. The Roman Emperours were
Priests themselves, but had none Belong to them
till they were Dead, and Deifyed. Towards the
Declension of Philosophy, now and then a grave
Pretender was drawn off by the Steams of the
Kitchin. Lucian ridicules these Men for their

Little Compliances. One of them it seems made
his Court to the Lap-dog, to improve his Interest
with the Lady. But an envious Foot-man hap∣pening
to smoke the Matter, broke a Iest upon
the Favorite, and the Philosopher, and spoiled
All. But these Sages don't come strictly within
the Question. They were only Seculars; and
entertain'd upon the Score of Learning, not
Religion.
In the Church, the Business of a Chaplain seems
not of the highest Antiquity. In the first Ages
the Clergy were supported by their Bishop, and ge∣nerally
lived under his Observation. (Can. Apost.)
And afterwards, when They removed from the
Mother Church, They had Titles, i. e. Cures
assigned them, much larger than single Families.
The first Chaplain I meet with was one Majori∣nus,
a very unfortunate Person. He lived in the
Reign of Dioclesian: And was Ordained by the
Donatists for the See of Carthage, against the
Catholick Bishop Caecilian. He was Set up and
Countenanced by his Patroness Lucilla, a high
Spirited Lady; who refused Communion with Cae∣cilian,
for being Reproved by Him when he was
Arch-deacon. (Optat. Lib