A discourse against painting and tincturing of women Wherein the abominable sinnes of murther and poysoning, pride and ambition, adultery and witchcraft are set foorth & discouered. Whereunto is added The picture of a picture, or, the character of a painted woman.



A DISCOVRSE Against Painting and Tincturing of WOMEN.
Wherein the abo∣minable sinnes of
Murther and Poysoning,
Pride and Ambition,
Adultery and Witchcraft,
are set foorth & discouered.
 [illustration] 
Whereunto is added the Picture of a Picture, or, The Character of a Painted Woman.
¶ Imprinted at London for Edward Marchant. 1616.

A TREATISE AGAINST PAIN∣TNG AND TINCTVRING OF MEN AND WOMEN:
Against
Murther and Poysoning: Pride and Ambition: Adulterie and Witchcraft.
AND THE ROOTE OF ALL THESE, Disobedience to the Ministery of the Word.
WHEREVNTO IS ADDED The picture of a picture, or, the Character of a Painted Woman.
By THOMAS TVKE, Minister of Gods Word at Saint Giles in the Fields.
ROM. 6. The wages of sinne is death.
Quot vitia, tot venena. A deceitfull heart hath deceiued them: they consider not that a lie is in their face.
LONDON, Printed by Tho. Creed, and Barn. Allsope, for Edward Merchant dwelling in Pauls Church-yard, neere the Crosse. 1616.
AD NIGELLAM MAGIS RV¦BICVNDAM, QVAM verecundam summo can∣dore.CRassa dies. Nec enim vergentis vespera saecli
Splendidius passa est emicuisse iubar.
Ergo quòd vmbra sumus, nihil est, fratres, sed & vmbrae
Vmbra est. Tum sequitur, quod sumus, vmbra sumus.
Scilicet hoc mirum: tibi derubuisserubore
Frontem, sic frontem, faemina, habes, nec hahes.
Tincta extinctaiacent, minioquerubentia sordent
Lumina, labrae, genae, quae nec habes, & habes.
Sola auris superest, audi, corrumpere noli,
Vt probior fias, & quod habes, habeas.
Eiusdem.Curiosus & Curiaesus.GEntlemen and Yeomen, in my opinion,
From the Latin Miniū, comes our English Miniō.
Who fearing lest the Prouerb shold proue good,
Still wear's two faces, but has left the hood.
And trust me la, her word's not worth two chips:
For shee's a woman of polluted lips.
Nath. Tuke.To women that paint themselues.
A Lome wall and painted face are one;
For th'beauty of them both is quickly gone.
When the lome is fallen of, then lathes appeare,
So wrinkles in that face fro th'eye to th'eare.
The chastest of your sex contemne these arts,
And many that vse them, haue rid in carts.
Arthur Dowton.
Infucatas.QUe pictas geritis facies, vos iure potestis
Dicere cum Flacco, puluis & vmbra sumus.
Iohannes Owen lib. 1. epigram. 90.
ENcretata timet Fabulla nimbum
Cerussatatimet Sabella Solem.
Martialislib. 2. epig. 41.Infucatas.
CLaudia de pictis olim Rufina Britannis,
Gestabat pictas non tamen ipsa genas;
Claudia non pictos tam nacta Britanna parentes,
Picta suum perimit quâ fonet arte, decus.
Sic maribus quondam fuerat quae insania turmis,
Faemineum vexat iam furibunda chorum.
Iohan. Iefferie.To painted women.
STay women-Gallants, cast an eye aside,
See where a mirrour represents your pride.
Not that your fardi