To the ministers, teachers, and priests (so called and so stileing your selves) in Barbadoes by George Fox.


TO THE Ministers, Teachers, AND PRIESTS, (So called, and so Stileing your Selves) IN BARBADOES.
BY GEORGE FOX.
Printed in the Year, 1672.
To the Ministers, Teachers and Priests (so called, and so stiling your selves) in BARBADOES.COnsider seriously what a Charge you take in hand; do you not pretend to watch for and over Peoples Souls, and to present them to God? Have you presented any to God? Nay, Can you present any to God? unless you be in the same Power and Spirit the Apo∣stles were in, which is an Immortal Power & Spirit, to pre∣sent the immortal Soul to the immortal God: Do you pretend to watch for the spiritual and everlasting Good of the People? but do not you watch more (whatever your pretences are) for their Goods (which you call your Revenues) then for that? O! how is it that there is so much raging (which wars against the Soul) amongst you; yea, such abun∣dance of Fleshly Lusts and Fleshly Talk in the Hearts and Mouthes of People? Do you not pretend to cure their Souls, and to be the Curates of them? And if so, can you make the Soul Perfect? If you present them to God, must they not be perfect here? For, will you present an unperfect Offering to a perfect God? Do you not pretend that you Plough in Hope? And have you the Spiritual Plough, that turns up the Fallow Ground? And if so, how comes it to pass, that there are so much Weeds upon your Ground? and that your Land lies fallow, in that there's so little Fruit brought forth to God? Look upon your Field every one of you; or whether are you idle, and do not plough, but beat the Air? and so do not
you pretend that you thresh in Hope? Now have you the Spiritual Flayl? and if so, How chances it that there is so much Chaff? And do you not plead for Imperfection, and a Body of Sin and Death that people must necessarily have, while they live upon Earth? Then do you not plead for Chaff, and not for the Wheat? And look upon your Fields, and look upon your Vineyards, and see what abundance of Chaff there is: Have you not been the Seeds-men of the Flesh, who sow to the Flesh; and not the Seeds-men of the Spirit, who sow to the Spirit (For he that sows to the Flesh, must of the Flesh reap Corruption (and so look what a goodly Crop you have) and he that sows to the Spirit, he reaps Life Eternal. But do you believe, that every one hath a measure of the Spirit for you to sow to? And do you believe, that every one is enlightened by Christ Jesus, the Light, and their Saviour, that you may turn them from Darkness to the Light, and from the Power of the Devil to God; or rather, that you turn them from the Power of God to the Devil, and from the Light to Dark∣ness? Examine your selves, and consider; for you must give an Account to God.
Have you heard Christ's Voice and God's Voice imme∣diately from Heaven? Hath he sent you to Preach, or have you ran before you were sent? And have you not spoken, a