Some short but necessary animadversions on the paper delivered to Dr. Hawkins together with a copy of the paper it self, entituled, The confession of Edward Fitz-Harris, Esq. written by his own hand and delivered &c. / reprinted from the copy published by the doctor, and these animadversions added to prevent the deluding of Protestants by it.


Some short but necessary Animadversions on the Paper delivered to Dr. Haw∣kins,
together with a Copy of the Paper it self entituled, The Confession of Ed∣ward
Fitz-Harris, Esq written with his own Hand, and delivered, &c.Reprinted from the Copy published by the Doctor, and these Animadversions
added to prevent the deluding of Protestants by it.ALL that have heard of the Execution of Fitz-Harris, and of the Paper he left with Dr. Haw∣kins,
are undoubtedly curiously inquisitive after the sight of it; it is therefore thus printed in
a Half Sheet, for the convenience of dispersing them throughout the Kingdom. But I durst
not make this Publication, without taking notice of the Incredibility of some passages in it,
for I do not know the Attestors. But admitting Fitz-Harris did leave this Paper, and the Attestations
be true, it doth not therefore follow the Narrative it self is true, I leave any man to judge whether the
second Paragraph looks like the drawing up of such a Layman as Fitz-Harris, or not rather like the work
of a Churchman. Those that know our present Sheriffs, know them to be Men of more Prudence and
Honesty, than he would suggest them to be; and as for our Recorder, he is known to be too good a
Christian to swear at that rate, and too wise a man to tell such a Fellow that The Libel was a Court Trick;
nor can he be thought so ridiculous as to tell him, Do you say a thing, and we have those that will swear it.
But the truth is, the whole Contrivance is so foolish, that no wise man will believe it. Notwithstanding
his so solemn declaring and protesting his Paper to be true, yet the whole Kingdom can give him the Lie
in one passage, viz. where he tells us, that the Sheriffs brought Instructions, which they said came from
the Lords and Commons, who met that day in order to address the King in his behalf; when all men
know the Parliament was not sitting during his Imprisonment in Newgate, (where onely the Sheriffs came
to him) nor did they meet till several days after he was sent to the Tower. Now when he is so easily con∣tradicted
herein, who will believe the rest? It was reported it would come out by order of Council, but
that proving false, we may well suspect the Story it self, there being so many Shams now abroad.
The Confession of Edward Fitz-Harys Esq
Written with his own Hand, and delivered to
〈◊〉. Hawkins Minister of the Tower, the
First of July, 1681. being the day of his Exe∣cution,
together with his last Speech.I Edward Fitz Harys, having been indicted of High Treason, for
endeavouring to dethrone the King was thereupon found
Guilty, and Sentence of Death passed upon me. I the
aforesaid Edwa