A salutation and seasonable exhortation to children.:  By Dorcas Dole.



A Salutation AND Seasonable Exh•rta•••n TO CHILDREN.
By Dorcas Dole.
LONDON, Printed and Sold by T. Sowle, in White-Hart-Court, in Gracious-Street, 1700.
A Salutation TO CHILDREN.Dear and Tender Children,WHO are of the Seed and Off-spring of the Righ∣teous, a Salutation of my endear∣ed Love is to you; and my Pray∣ers to the God of Love, and Fa∣ther of Mercy, are for you, that he may raise you up as living Monuments of his Mercies: And as you have been brought up in the Way of Truth, by your Pa∣rents or Friends (that have a

Godly Care over you, to dis∣charge their Duty, in Love to God, and to your Immortal Souls) you may come into the Truth and Fear of God, that they may have cause to sound out living Praises to the God of our Lives, on your behalf, for the Cry of the Righteous is to the Lord for their Children, as for their own Souls; and as they are near and dear unto them, so their Desire to the Lord is, That they may be near and dear unto him, and that he would give them an In∣heritance amongst them that are San∣ctified; which is far better than any outward Portion or Inheri∣tance that they can leave you, and will stand by you when all outward Riches will fail you; for tho' you are Young and Ten∣der in Years, you know not how

soon the Messenger of Death may come to call you; then there can be no resisting of that Power that Summoneth you in, and to Judg∣ment calls you. Oh! therefore whilst you have a Day, prize it, for Time is very precious to Old and Young; and the Redempti∣on of the Soul is also precious. Oh! therefore, dear Children, Remember your Creator in the days of your Youth, and answer the End of the Lord, for which he made you, which was to Serve and Worship Him; for your Belie∣ving Parents, that have born you, and suckled you, can have no greater Joy in you, than as Samuel's Mother had, That she had born and suckled a Child for the Lord; and as the Lord had freely given him unto her, she freely gave him up to serve the Lord, in his Temple, all the days of his Life.

So dear Children, wait upon the Lord, that your Strength may be renewed in Him, and that you may feel the same Pow∣er at work in you, as sanctified Samuel, that you may be sanctifi∣ed Vessels to the Lord, and that your Bodies may be Temples for the Holy Ghost to dwell in.
So the Desire of my Soul to the Lord for you is, That as you have begun a Testimony for the Lord, in keeping up the Meet∣ing, that you may hold out to the end, and not fear what Man can do unto you; for the Lord's Care is over you: And as you Meet in his Fear, his over-sha∣dowing Power will be amongst you, tho' you are but little Children; he will suffer you to come unto Him, that out of the Mouths of Babes and Sucklings heordains Strength, that he may per∣fect his Praise; and he will carry his Lambs in his Arms, and gent∣ly lead those that are Young.
So, dear Children, keep to the God of Strength, and he will be your Strength;