An account of the great dangers and distresses, and the remarkable deliverance of Capt. Nathanael Peirce, who sail'd from Portsmouth, in New-Hampshire, bound for Louisbourg; and being taken up at sea, was carried to Oporto. / Written by himself.


AN ACCOUNT OF THE Great Dangers and Distresses, AND The remarkable Deliverance OF Capt. Nathanael Peirce, Who sail'd from Portsmouth, in New-Hampshire, bound for Louisbourg; AND Being taken up at Sea, was carried to Oporto.
Written by Himself.
BOSTON: Printed and Sold by EDES and GILL, in Queen-Street, 1756.
INTRODUCTION.By Another Hand.THE Author, and principal Subject of the following Story, is a Gentleman well known to many in New-England, particularly at Portsmouth, the Capital of the Province of New-Hampshire, the Place of his Nativity, and where he now resides. And such is the Character of Capt. Peirce, that no one, who is acquainted with it, will call in Question the Fidelity with which he has related these surprising Adventures. He was desired by his Friends, soon after he returned to them as one risen from the Dead, to commit to Writing the very remar|kable Occurrences of his Voyage, while they were fresh in his Memory. And now he has consented to the Printing of this Account, as a publick Acknowledgement of his Ob|ligations to Almighty God, whose kind Hand conducted him safely thro' such a Variety of extreme Dangers; and as an Encouragement to others, in every Article of Distress and Hazard to confide in His Providence which determines the Fall of a Sparrow, which numbers even the Hairs of our Heads; and which often affords us De|liverance in a Way contrary to all human Expectation.
The Reader, in perusing the ensuing Relation, will naturally call to Mind that devout and animated Passage of Holy Writ: They that go down to the Sea in Ships, that do Business in great Waters; these see the Works of God, and his Wonders in the Deep. For he com|mandeth, and raiseth the stormy Wind, which lifteth up the Waves thereof. They mount up to the Heaven, they go down again to the Depth, their Soul is melted because of Trouble. They reel to and fro, and stagger like a drunken Man, and are at their Wits End. Then they cry unto the Lord in their Trouble, and he bringeth them out of their Distresses. Oh that Men would praise the Lord for his Goodness, and for his wonderful Works to the Children of Men!
An ACCOUNT of the great Dangers and Distresses, and the remarkable Deliverance, of Captain NATHANAEL PEIRCE._THE Brigantine called the Portsmouth, NATHANAEL PEIRCE, Master, belonging to Mr. Robert Odiorne, and others, of Portsmouth in New-England, sail'd from thence the 22d Day of November 1752, bound to Louisbourg; with a Cargo chiefly of Lumber. The Crew, besides the Master, consisting of the following Persons, viz. Nathaniel Barns Mate, 'David Brown Cooper, William Langdon, Timothy Cotton, Longford a Negro Man, all Residents of Portsmouth aforesaid; William Williams of Liver|pool, and Thomas Chambers of some P