Emilia de Varmont, or The necessary divorce; and memoirs of Curate Sevin. A moral and political tale. Founded on facts. / Translated from the French of M. Louvet, by Melatiah Nash. ; Three volumes in one. ; Vol. I[-III]. ; [Three lines of verse from Pope]


EMILIA DE VARMONT.
Copy-Right of this Translation secured.
EMILIA DE VARMONT, OR THE NECESSARY DIVORCE; AND MEMOIRS OF CURATE SEVIN. A Moral and Political Tale. Founded on Facts.
Translated from the French of M. LOUVET, By MELATIAH NASH.
THREE VOLUMES IN ONE. VOL. I.
Virtue alone has charms that never die.
. . . . . . . . . . .
Vice is a monster of such frightful mien,
That to be hated needs but to be seen.
POPE.NEW-YORK: Printed by T. & J. SWORDS, No. 99 Pearl-street. —1799.—
To the Reader.THE following Letters were published in France in 1791. They contain a relation of events which are said to have taken place in that country in 1782. Although the work is probably in some degree fictitious, and has every appear|ance of a novel, the reader may be assured that it is, in a great measure, founded upon facts. The author seems to have had it in view to re|move many religious and other prejudices from the minds of the French people, and to show that several institutions of the Roman Catholic reli|gion were, in their nature, injurious to national and individual happiness. This he endeavours to do, by giving the history of several persons who were extremely unhappy in consequence of the absurd laws and religious institutions of their country, and thereby convince his readers that a reformation was necessary.
The custom of forbidding marriage to the clergy, and the institution of monasteries, by which many persons were excluded from society, are here shown to be absurd and unnatural; and the time is anticipated when the prejudices of the people should be removed, and those despicable establishments at an end.
On reading the title-page, the reader will find a part of it to be, "The Necessary Divorce." This has reference to an instance mentioned in the

history, where it is thought to be suitable and necessary that a husband and wife should not only be separated, but even obtain a divorce, although they are persons of the strictest virtue, and their conduct unimpeachable. This the Editor acknow|ledges to be a curious question, which he would choose to leave to the decision of the reader. But he will venture, for himself, to affirm, that the law of divorce granted by the French National Assembly, can no more be justified than that of Moses, and that they can urge no better reason to palliate their criminality than "the hardness of the people's hearts."
The unparalleled profligacy of manners this nation has manifested in the course of the late revolution; their open and daring professions of atheism, and trampling on every divine precept; but more especially their wanton depredations on our commerce, and refusing to come to an amica|ble settlement of differences between the two na|tions, has filled the m