The last will, and testament, of the late Reverend and renowned George Whitefield, who departed this life, at Newbury-Port, Sept. 30th. 1770. Aetat. 56. / Written by himself at Georgia, on his last tower [sic] through America; and published by order of his executors in London.


LAST WILL, AND TESTAMENT, OF THE Late REVEREND And RENOWNED GEORGE WHITEFIELD, Who Departed this Life, at Newbury-Port, Sept. ••th 1770. Aet. 56.
Written by Himself at Georgia, on his last Tower through America; and Published by Order of his Executors in London.
LONDON Printed: BOSTON: Printed and Sold, next to the Writing School in Queen-Street, and opposite to the Seat of WILLIAM VASSALL, Esq. 〈◊〉 1771.
This Day Published, And to be Sold at the Printing-Office opposite, William Vassal, Esq in Queen-Street.POEMS, upon several Ser|mons preached by the late Re|verend and Renowned GEORGE WHITEFIELD while in BOS|TON.
By JANE DUNLAP, in BOSTON.
THE Last Will, &c.AS it is not doubted the numerous friends of the late Reverend Mr. GEORGE WHITEFIELD will be glad of an opportunity of seeing a ge|nuine copy of his last Will and Testament; his Exe|cutors have favoured the Public with a copy of the same, transmitted to them from the Orphan House in Geor|gia, and which they have proved in the Prerogative Court of Canterbury. And as it was Mr. WHITE|FIELD's constant declaration he never meant to raise either a Purse or a Party, it is to be remarked, that al|most the whole money he died possessed of, came to him within two or three Years of his death, in the following manner, viz. Mrs. Thompson, of Tower|hill, bequeathed him 500l. By the death of his Wife, including a Bond of 300l. he got 700l. Mr. Whit|more bequeathed him 100l. and Mr. Winder 100l. and it is highly probable, that had he lived to reach Georgia from his late nothern tour, he would have much lessened the above sums, by disposing of them in the same noble and disinterested manner that all the publick or private sums he has been intrusted with have been.
Georgia.By his Excellency James Wright Esq Captain Gene|ral, Governor and Commander in Chief of His Ma|jesty's said Province of Georgia, Chancellor and Vice Admiral of the same.To all to whom these presents shall come, greeting; Know ye, That Thomas Moodie, who hath certified the annexed copy from the original, in the Secretary's Office, is Deputy Secretary of the said Province, and therefore all due faith and credit is, and ought to be had, and gi|ven to such his Certificate.
In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand, and caused the great Seal of this, his Majesty's said Province to be put and affixed, dated at Savannah the tenth day of

December in the year of our Lord 1770. and in the ele|venth year of the reign of his Majesty King George the Third.
By his Excellency's Command. J. Wright. THO, MOODIE, D. Secretary.IN the name of the Father, Son, and Holy-Ghost, three Persons, but one God; I GEORGE WHITEFIELD, Clerk, at present residing at the Orphan-House Academy