Gods protecting providence, man's surest help and defence in the times of the greatest difficulty and most imminent danger evidenced in the remarkable deliverance of divers persons from the devouring waves of the sea, amongst which they suffered shipwrack : and also from the more cruelly devouring jawes of the inhumane canibals of Florida / faithfully related by one of the persons concerned therein, Jonathan Dickenson.


GODS
PROTECTING PROVIDENCE
MAN'S
SUREST HELP AND DEFENCE
In the times
Of the greatest difficulty and most Imminent danger;
Evidenced in the
Remarkable Deliverance
Of divers Persons,
From the devouring Waves of the Sea, amongst which
they Suffered Shipwrack.
And also
From the more cruelly devouring jawes of the inhumane
CANIBALS of FLORIDA.
Faithfully related by one of the persons concerned therein;
JONATHAN DICKENSON.
Psal. 93: 4.
The Lord on high is mightier than the noise of many Waters,
yea than the mighty Waves of the Sea.Psal. 74: 20.
The dark places of the Earth are full of the habitations
of Cruelty.Printed in Philadelphia by Reinier Jansen. 1699.
The PrefaceIngratitude towards men, after signal fawours received,
is, amongst all civilized people, looked upon with a
just detestation; insomuch that the morall Gentiles in ages
past, thought they could give no worse a character of a Per∣son,
than to call him ungratefull. How much more then are
Christians (especially in a time of such Light, as now shineth)
engaged, to shun this fin of ingratitude, towards their GOD,
whom the sensible know, to be the Fountain of all their mer∣cies:
And surely, next to the infinite mercy shewed them
for Christs sake, in causing the days-spring from on high to
visit their Souls; remarkable outward deliverances, ought
in a more than commonly remarkable manner, to be the ob∣jects
of their gratitude, to their great Deliverer. I must
confess, thanks giving (which is what we poor Mortal• can
return, for the manifold favours we daily receive from
him) hath it's rise in the heart; and as out of the abundance
of the heart the mouth speaketh, how can those who are
truly thankfull in heart; but render the calves of their lips;
in telling to their Friends and acquaintance, how great things
GOD hath done for them: Nay, they are so affected, with
such eminent appearances of the Protecting hand of Provi∣dence,
for their help, preservation and deliverance; that
they are not vvilling to confine it to them only, but to pub∣lish
it to the World; that the Fame of their God may be
spread from Sea to Sea, and from one end of the Earth to
the other.
The following relation being large, I shall endeavour to
be short; only, some of the things which seem to me most
remarkable' I would more particularly recommend to the
Readers observation.
1. The hearts of all men are in the hand of God, he can
turn them as he pleases. When these Man-eaters fury was
at height, their knives in one hand, and the poor Shipwrakt
People's heads in the other; their knees upon the others
shoulde