Reflections upon some passages in a book, entitled reflections upon the conduct of human life. With reference to the study of learning and knowledge. By Edmund Elys.


REFLECTIONS
UPON
Some Passages,
IN A
BOOK,
Entitled
REFLECTIONS upon the Conduct
of HUMAN LIFE.
With Reference to the Study of Learning
and Knowledge.BY EDMVND ELYS.REflection 1. Sect. 4. Perhaps we shall be found to
be as much out in the Conduct of our Vnderstandings,
as in that of our Wills.
Answ. There is no Irregularity in the Vnderstand∣ing,
but what Proceeds from the Irregularity of the Will.
Sect. 10. True Knowledge (whatever it be) must be sup∣pos'd
to be a thing of Uncommon difficulty, and the Study
of it a Work fit only for sublimer Wits; the more Elevated,
and Awakned part of Mankind.
Answ. Purity of Heart, is that which doth Principally conduce to
the Attainment of True Knowledge.

〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉,
〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉.
Sophocles.
The Soul that's truly Just, and Kind;
Truth, hid from subtle Wits, shall Find.
Sect. 37. A thing may deserve to be known, not as Perfect∣ing
the Vnderstanding; but meerly as touching upon our In∣terest.
Answ. No Man can have any True, or Real Interest, but
what has some Reference to the Enjoyment of the SOVE∣REIGN
GOOD: Therefore any thing that deserves to be
Known because it touches upon our Interest; deserves to be
known as Perfecting the Understanding: The Perfection of the
Understanding consisting in the Apprehension of the Truth, for
the satisfaction of the Will, in the Possession of the True Good.
I agree with this Ingenious Author in that he says, No
Truth is Perfective of the Understanding, but only necessary Truth.
By necessary Truth I understand the DIVINE ESSENCE,
and all those EFFECTS of infinite Wisdom, Power, and
Goodness, which it is Our Duty to Contemplate.
Reflection 2. Sect. 10. If now it be further demanded how
this may be done; (viz. to apply our selves to the Divine
〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉 to consult the Ideal World) I Answer that there are
Three ways of doing it, and I can think of no more: The
First is by Attention; The Second by Purity of Heart, and
Life; and the Third by Prayer.
I do not Charge these Words with Falshood, but the Reader
will fall into an Error, if he conceit that he may apply himself
to the Divine〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉 by any other Attention of the Mind, but

what proceeds from such a Temper, or Disposition of Will,
which implies an Aversion from any other Speculation, but what
may be Vseful unto him, in doing the will of God.
This holy Disposition of the Will, is the only true Purity
of Heart, and the Exercising of it is an Effectual Prayer, a Wor∣shiping
of GOD in Spirit, and in Truth.
These words Sect. 29. are most perfectly agreeable to my
Conceptions: We ought to prosecute Learning and Know∣ledge,
no further than as 'tis conducieve to the great ends
of Piety, and Virtue. And consequently whenever we Study
to any other Purpose, or in any other Degree than this;
we are Unaccountab