Of free justification by Christ written first in Latine by John Fox, author of the Book of martyrs, against Osorius, &c. and now translated into English, for the benefit of those who love their own souls, and would not be mistaken in so great a point.


OF Free Iustification BY CHRIST.
Written First in Latine By Iohn Fox, Author of the Book of Martyrs, AGAINST OSORIUS, &c.
And now Translated into English, for the Benefit of those who love their own Souls, and would not be mista∣ken in so great a point.
LONDON, Printed for Tho. Parkhurstat at the Bible and Three Crowns, at the lower end of Cheapside. 1694.
THE EPISTLE OF THE AUTHOR, To all Afflicted and Troubled Con∣sciences of Believers in Christ.BEing to write this Apology concern∣ing Free Iustification by Christ; the more that I consider the Cause, that I have undertaken, the more I am inclined to proceed. And again, when I call to mind these Times, and how the Manners of Men are corrupted, there arifeth in my mind a doubtful wavering, distracting me several ways, not without some fear joyned therewith, That which causeth me to
〈◊〉 is this, lest the greatest part of our People (as the minds of Men are apt to catch at the smailest occasious) Should contract Some 〈◊〉 from this mild and peace∣able Doctrine of Evangelical Iustification, to grow the more bold in Sinning. From whence I do therefore partly apprehend, what the Silent Thoughts of Some Men may object against me; who, though they will not deny the things which we say of Christ to be true, yet they will judge them unseasonable for the Times and Manners of Men now∣a-days, being so corrupted and infected. Nay, that they are rather hurtful, and open a door to greater boldness and security in sinning. Therefore, that I may answer those Men, and give some account of my undertaking, I thought sit to speak a few things by way of 〈◊〉
〈◊〉 That I am not at all ignorant 〈◊◊〉 of prodigious Uncleanness do abound every where at this day; and also 〈◊〉 do no less 〈◊〉 the things that I see. And I wish it were as much in my power 〈◊〉 procure the healing of these Evils, as I am 〈◊〉 grieved at so great a Torrent of all Wickedness prevailing daily more and more.
〈◊〉 some will say, Then dram forth and

thunder out something from the severe Law of God, which may terrifie the minds of the People with the healthful Fear of God, and the dreadfulness of Divine Vengeance, which maytake away the furious Lusts of Life, and restrain unbridled Boldness, and reduce Men into a course of more severe discipline, and reclaim them from Wickedness to se∣rious Repentance, and drive all Men for∣ward by all means to endeavour the best things. But what other thing do I drive at in these Treatises throughout, though not with the same dexterity of Speech, and excellency of Wit as many Men, yet aiming altogether at the same 〈◊〉. For if we look at the End of things with a right Iudgment, what is the Design of all the Doctrine of the Sacred Gospel, concerning Faith, Christ the 〈◊〉 and F