26
CLMET3_1_1_26.txt
1710-1780
1725-1749
X1726-49
1726-49
Drama
drama
Irene
Johnson, Samuel
M
1709
Neoclassical tragedy in verse
http://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/10835/pg10835.txt
23-10-2012
selected from larger file


PROLOGUE .


Ye glitt ` ring train , whom lace and velvet bless , Suspend the soft solicitudes of dress !
From grov ` ling bus ` ness and superfluous care , Ye sons of avarice , a moment spare !
Vot ` ries of fame , and worshippers of power , Dismiss the pleasing phantoms for an hour !
Our daring bard , with spirit unconfin'd , Spreads wide the mighty moral for mankind .
Learn here , how heaven supports the virtuous mind , Daring , though calm ; and vig ` rous , though resign'd ; Learn here , what anguish racks the guilty breast , In pow ' r dependant , in success depress'd .
Learn here , that peace from innocence must flow ; All else is empty sound , and idle show .


If truths , like these , with pleasing language join ; Ennobled , yet unchang'd , if nature shine ; If no wild draught depart from reason 's rules ; Nor gods his heroes , nor his lovers fools ; Intriguing wits !
his artless plot forgive ; And spare him , beauties !
though his lovers live .


Be this , at least , his praise , be this his pride ; To force applause , no modern arts are try'd .
Should partial catcals all his hopes confound , He bids no trumpet quell the fatal sound .
Should welcome sleep relieve the weary wit , He rolls no thunders o'er the drowsy pit ; No snares , to captivate the judgment , spreads , Nor bribes your eyes to prejudice your heads .
Unmov'd , though witlings sneer , and rivals rail , Studious to please , yet not asham'd to fail , He scorns the meek address , the suppliant strain , With merit needless , and without it vain .
In reason , nature , truth , he dares to trust : Ye fops , be silent : and , ye wits , be just !


PERSONS OF THE DRAMA .


MEN .


MAHOMET , Emperour of the Turks , Mr. BARRY .


CALI BASSA , First vizier , Mr. BERRY .


MUSTAPHA , A Turkish aga , Mr. SOWDEN .


ABDALLA , An officer , Mr. HAVARD .


HASAN , \ / Mr. USHER , Turkish captains , CARAZA , / \ Mr. BURTON .


DEMETRIUS , \ / Mr. GARRICK , Greek noblemen , LEONTIUS , / \ MR. BLAKES .


MURZA , An eunuch , Mr. KING .


WOMEN .


ASPASIA , \ / Mrs. GIBBER , Greek ladies , IRENE , / \ Mrs. PRITCHARD .


Attendants on IRENE .


ACT I. -- SCENE I .


DEMETRIUS and LEONTIUS , in Turkish habits .


LEONTIUS .
And , is it thus Demetrius meets his friend , Hid in the mean disguise of Turkish robes , With servile secrecy to lurk in shades , And vent our suff ` rings in clandestine groans ?


DEMETRIUS .
Till breathless fury rested from destruction , These groans were fatal , these disguises vain : But , now our Turkish conquerors have quench'd Their rage , and pall'd their appetite of murder , No more the glutted sabre thirsts for blood ; And weary cruelty remits her tortures .


LEONTIUS .
Yet Greece enjoys no gleam of transient hope , No soothing interval of peace