A sermon preached before the judges, &c. in the time of the assizes in the Cathedral church at Gloucester on Sunday Aug. 7, 1681 published to put a stop to false and injurious representations / by Edward Fowler.


A SERMON Preached before the JUDGES, &c. In the time of the ASSIZES IN THE CATHEDRAL CHVRCH AT GLOUCESTER, On Sunday Aug. 7. 1681.
Published to put a stop to False and Inju∣rious Representations.
By Edward Fowler, D.D.
LONDON, Printed for R. Royston, Bookseller to His most Sa∣cred Majesty, and Walter Kettilby, 1681.
A PREFACE TO THE READER.THE desire of many Worthy Gentlemen, who were pleased to think this Sermon seasonable, could not have prevailed with me to make it thus publick, were it not for the Entertainment it hath met with from ano∣ther sort of Auditors, who have represented it as Fanati∣cal, and almost all that's naught.
But, as I have not (I thank God) so little of a Christi∣an in me, as to return Cursing for Cursing, or Reviling for Reviling; but, on the contrary, do most heartily pray for these men, who express the greatest enmity against me: so will I no longer trouble the Reader with complaints of their most injurious and provoking behaviour upon the account of the following Discourse, but only intreat him to be Impartial in the perusal of it; and then to judge between them and me, whether I have given them any other cause to be so in∣raged, than what the blessed Apostle gave the Galatians, viz. Telling them the truth.
And I appeal to the most Censorious and Captious of those that heard me, whether I have been guilty of the least Vn∣faithfulness in this Publication.
God is my Witness, that I had the best of Designs in Pen∣ning and Preaching this Sermon, viz. A sincere and earnest desire to do some service to the Protestant Religion, His Majesty, and the Church of England, as by Law esta∣blisht: Nor am I conscious to my self of any crime in the

pursuing of this Design, unless honest impartiality in ex∣posing the Doings, which are apparently most highly preju∣dicial to the interest of all these (than which nothing in this world should be dearer to us) ought to render me blame-worthy.
But I am not in the least solicitous about what defects may be found in the Discourse, that are not of a moral nature; for, as the ingenuous will easily overlook them (especially in a Discourse not design'd for the Press) so 'twould be a great piece of weakness to be at all concerned at the Censures of those that lye at the catch, and who if they find no faults will be sure to make them.
But the main thing I intended this Preface for is yet be∣hind, viz. A faithful Narrative of a matter of Fact, which hath had the ill fortune to be as falsly and injuriously repre∣sented as this Sermon. It is this, There lately stood in the West-window of the Quire of Gloucester Cathedral, a most scandalous Picture, viz. Of the Blessed Trinity: Which, had it been much observed, could never have outstood the first year of the Reformation; and much less continued