The counsell of a father to his sonne, in ten seuerall precepts left as a legacy at his death.


The Counsell of a Father to his Sonne, in ten seuerall Precepts.Left as a Legacy at his death.The Induction or Preface.SONNE, The vertuous inclination of thy matchlesse Mother, by whose tender and godly care thy Infancy was gouerned, together with thy education vnder so godly and zealous a Tu∣tor, puts me rather in assurance then hope, that thou art not ignorant of that summary bond, which is onely able to make thee happy, aswell in thy life as death. I meane the true know∣ledge of thy Creator and redeemer, without which all things are vaine and miserable. So that thy youth being guided by so al-sufficient a teacher, I make no doubt but he will furnish thy life both with Diuine and morall documents; yet that I may not cast of the care beseeming a parent towards his child, or that thou shouldest haue cause, to deriue thy whole felicity and welfare rather from others, then from whom thou receiuedst thy birth and being, I thinke it fit and agreable to the affection I beare, to giue thee such ad∣uertisements and rules for the squaring of thylife, as are gayned rather by long experience, then much reading, to the end, that thou entring in∣to this exorbitant age maist be the better prepared to shun those caute∣lous courses, whereinto this world, and thy lacke of experience may easi∣ly draw thee. And because I will not confound thy memory, I haue re∣duced them into ten precepts, if thou imprint them in thy mind, thou shalt reape the benefite, and I the contentment. And these are they.
The first Pecept.FIrst, when it shall please God, to bring thee to mans estate, vse great prouidence and circumspection in the choice of thy wife: for from thence may spring all thy future good or ill. And it is an action like to a Stratagem in warre, where man can erre but once. If thy estate bee good, match neere home and at leasure: if weak, then farre off and quick∣ly, enquire diligently of her disposition, and how her parents haue bene inclined in their youth. Let her not be poore, how generous soeuer: for a man can buy nothing in the market with gentility. Neither choose a base or vncomely creature: for that will breed contempt in others, and loa∣thing in thee. Make not choice of a dwarfe or a foole: for from the one thou maist beget a race of Pigmies, the other may be thy daily disgrace. For it will yrke thée to heare her talke, and thou shalt finde (to thy great griefe) that there is nothing so fulsome as is a shee foole.
Touching the gouernment of thy house, let thy hospytality bee mode∣rate, according to the measure of thine owne estate, rather plentifull then sparing, (but not too costly) For I neuer heard nor yet knew any man grow poore by keeping an orderly Table, But some consume them∣selues with secret vices, and their hospitality must beare the blame. Ba∣nish swynish drunkards out of thy house, which is a vice that impaires health, consumes much, and makes no sh