Two treatises the first concerning Gods certaine performance of his conditional promises, as touching the elect, or, A treatise of Gods most free and powerfull grace, lately published without the authours privitie, and printed corruptly, by the name and title of Solid comfort for sound Christians : the second, concerning the extent of Christs death and love, now added to the former : with an additionall thereunto : both of them preached at New-Castle upon Tine ... / by Robert Ienison ...


TWO TREATISES, THE FIRST CONCERNING GODS Certaine performance of his con∣ditional Promises, as touching the Elect, or, A Treatise Of Gods most free and powerfull Grace. Lately published without the Au∣thours privitie, and printed corruptly, by the name and title of solid Comfort for sound Christians.
The second, Concerning the extent of Christs death and love, now added to the former.
With an Additionall thereunto.
Both of them preached at New-Castle upon Tine first for the vindication of the Truth of God and of our Churches doctrine.
But Fitted for the Eye, by occasion of some oppo∣sition they found.
By Robert Ienison Doctor of D.
LONDON, Printed by E. G. for L. Blaikelocke at his shop at the Sugar-Loafe next Temple-Bar in Fleete-streete, 6.
TO The right Worshipfull, •nd other my late hearers in the Town and County of Newcastle upon Tine.WHat good a first, by prea∣ching on thesetwo in∣•ring arguments was •ntended by mee, my •earty wish is that you •ay now at lengthreap •nd make use of. The •ormer argument (after •t was newly preached)
I was (upon a co• plaint made agai• me,
 and a conventi• thereupon) charged have ready; (though was never called for yet being then m•• ready and copies tak• at length, without 〈◊〉 privity after elev•• yeares it came to 〈◊〉 published, but w• many errours. No to do my selfe rig• I corrected the cop• and have procured reprinting of it, and company of it doe• nexe the other sh•Treatise as like unto it, •n respect . of like na∣•ure. . of like op∣•osition, which it found 〈◊〉 of like concernment •o you all, who may •ow more advisedly, •nd some of you with •osse prejudice (J hope •hen formerly) consi∣•ber of the evidence of •he ruth of these waigh∣•y & usefull arguments, •nd acknowledge the •aith fulnesse of him to∣wards you, who, out of duty and conscience to God, and love to you and your soules (setting
aside all base and perso∣n•ll respects) hath eve••ought your spiritual• good; & shall not ceas• (though now far sepa∣rated ••om you) to pro∣mote and procure th• s•me, so commendin• these two Treatises t• your and the Church• perusall, I rest (as on• more specially, so for e• ever)
Yours and the Churches servant,
Robert IenisonFrom Dantisck,May, . 6.THE CONTENTSSection . A Generall Hint of such points as have beene handled out of this Text.
Doing here how to bee un∣derstood? Namely, Evangeli∣cally and so as to be extended •o conversion, Faith, and to Gods will, manifested by word and worke.
This will of God made knowne in his word, the