Mr. Geo. Withers revived, or, His prophesie of our present calamity, and (except we repent) future misery written by him in the year 1628.


Mr. Geo. Withers Revived: OR, His PROPHESIE of our present Calamity, and (except we Repent) future Misery.
Written by him in the Year 1628.
GOD hath a Controversie with our Land,
And In an evil plight Affairs do stand:
Already we do smart for doing ill,
Yet us the hand of God afflicteth still,
And many see it not; as many be
So wilful, that his hand they will not see.
Some plainly view the same, but nothing care;
Some at the sight thereof amazed are
Like Belthazar, and have a trembling heart,
Yet will not from their vanities depart.
Some dream that all things do by chance succeed,
And that I prate more of them than I need:
But Heaven and Earth to witness I invoke,
That carelesly I nothing here have spoke.
If this, O sickly Island, thou believe,
And for thy great infirmity shalt grieve,
And grieving of thy follies make confessions,
And so confess thine infinite transgressions,
That thou amend those Errors, God shall then
Thy manifold Distempers cure agen;
Make all thy Scarlet sins as white as Snow,
And cast thy threatned Judgments on thy Foe.
But if thou (fondly thinking thou art well)
Shalt slight this Message, which my Muse doth tell,
And scorn her Counsel; if thou shalt not rue
Thy former waies, but frowardly pursue
Thy wilful course; then hark what I am bold
(In spight of all thy madness) to unfold;
For I will tell thy Fortune; which, when they
That are unborn shall read another day;
They will believe God's mercy did infuse
Thy Poets breast with a Prophetick Muse.
And know, that he this Author did prefer,
To be from him, this Isles Remembrancer.
If thou, I say, Oh Britain, shalt retain
Thy crying sins, thou dost presume in vain
Of God's Protection: If thou stop thine ear,
Or burn this Rowl, in which recorded are
Thy just Indictments, it shall written be
With new Additions, deeply stampt on thee
With such Characters, that no time shall race
Their fatal Image from thy scarred face.
Though haughtily thou dost thy self dispose;
Because the Sea thy Borders doth inclose;
Although thou multiply thy In-land Forces,
And muster up large Troops of Men and Horses;
Though like an Eagle thou thy wings display'st,
And (high thy self advancing) proudly say'st,
I sit aloft, and am so high, that none
Can fetch me from the place I rest upon:
Yea, though thou no advantages did'st want,
Of which the gloriest Emperies did vaunt;
Yet, sure, thou shalt be humbled and brought low,
Ev'n then, perhaps, when less thou fear'st it so.
Till thou repent, provisions which are made
For thy defence, or others to invade,
Shall be in vain; and still, the greater cost
Thou shalt bestow, the honour that is lost
Shall be the greater; and thy wasted strength
Be sick of a Consumption at the length.
Thy Treaties which for peace and profit be,
Shall neither peace nor profit bring to thee.
Yea, all thy winnings shall but fewel be,
To feed those foll