The case of shipmony briefly discoursed, according to the grounds of law, policie, and conscience and most humbly presented to the censure and correction of the High Court of Parliament, Nov. 3. 1640.


The Case of
SHIPMONY
Briefly Discoursed,
ACCORDING TO THE
Grounds of Law, Policie,
and Conscience.
AND
MOST HVMBLY
presented to the Censure and
Correction of the High Court
of PARLIAMENT,
Nov. 3. 1640.
Printed Ann. Dom. 1640.
THE
Case of SHIP-MONEY
Briefly discoursed,GREAT • Fires happening
in Townes or Cities, are
sometimes the cause that
other contiguous houses
are spoyld and demolisht,
besides those which the flame it selfe cea∣zes:
So now, in the case of Shipmony, not
onely the judgement it selfe which hath
beene given against the subject, doth make
a great g•p and breach in the rights and
Franchises of England, but the arguments
and pleadings also, which conduced to
that judgement, have extended the mis∣chiefe
further, and scarce left anything
unviolated. Such strange contradiction
there hath beene amongst the pleaders,
and dissent amongst the Judges, even in

those Lawes which are most fundamentall,
that we are lef• in a more confused uncertain∣ty
of our highest priviledges, and those cu∣stomes
which are most essentiall to Free∣dome
then we were before. To introduce
the legality of the Ship-scot, such a Prero∣gative
hath been maintained, as destroyes all
other Law, and is incompatible with popular
liberty: and such art hath beene used to de∣ny,
traverse, avoid, or frustrate the true force
or meaning of all our Lawes and Charters,
that if wee grant Ship-money upon these
grounds, with Ship-money we grant all be∣sides.
To remove therefore this uncertain∣ty,
which is the mother of all injustice, con∣fusion,
and publike dissention, it is most re∣quisite
that this grand Councell and Tres∣•ault
Court (of which none ought to thinke
dishonourably) would take these Ard•a Reg∣ni,
these weighty and dangerous difficulties,
into serious debate, an solemnly end that
strife, which no other place of Judicature
can so effectually extinguish.
That the King ought to have aid of his
subjects in time of danger, and common aid
in case of common danger, is laid down for
a ground, and agreed upon by all sides, But
about this aid there remain•s much variety
and contrariety of opinion amongst the grea∣test
Sages of our Law; and the principall

points therein controverted are these foure:
First, by what Law the King may compell
aid. Secondly, when it is to bee levied.
Thirdly, how it is to be levied. Fourthly,
what kinde of aid it must be.
1 Some of the Judges argue from the
Law of Nature, that since the King is head,
and •ound to protect, therefore he must have
wherewithall to protect: but this proves on∣ly
that which no man denies. The next Law
insisted upon is Prerogative; but it is not
punctually explained what Prerogative, whe∣ther
the Prerogative naturall of all Kings, or
the Prerogative legall of the Kings of Eng∣land.
Some of the Judges urge, that by Law
there