Last words and dying speech of Samuel Smith, who was executed at Concord, in the county of Middlesex, and the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, the 26th of December, A.D. 1799, for the crime of burglary.


Last Words AND DYING SPEECH OF SAMUEL SMITH, Who was Executed at Concord, in the County of Middlesex, and Commonwealth of Mas|sachusetts, the 26th of December, A. D. 1799, for the Crime of BURGLARY.I WAS born in Middleton, in the County of Middlesex and State of Connecticut, on the 18th Day of January, A. D. 1745.
My Parents were honest, industrious, reputable persons; well instructed and much inclined to the Christian Religion, especially my Mother, who is now living to lament the shameful death of her un|dutiful Son. My Parents gave me but a very or|dinary education, though I often received from them good moral instructions. I have four Brothers and two Sisters now living, who by their good conduct have made themselves reputable in the World, whilst I, by my bad, have brought myself to the Gallows. I have now but a short time to live and make my Peace with my God. I therefore shall not pretend to recollect and publish to the World every particular Crime, of which I have been guilty; for to do this, would require a Month's time, and a Catalogue of my shameful thefts would fill a large Volume. I passed my childhood, as others, pleas|ed with my Toys and Rattles, till age and strength required I should do something for my support: From that time till I arrived to the age of 27, I led an honest industrious life, entirely free, not only from the crime, but without any inclination fraudulently to take the property of another person.
About this time I fell in company with a female of whom I was foolishly and extravagantly fond, but at length, I found her heart was corrupt and the words of her mouth very deceitful. This disap|pointment, with the loss of two hundred Dollars, stolen from me, which was all I then possessed in the world, led me frequently to the excessive use of ardent spirits, which caused me very soon to commit the crime of theft, of which I was suspect|ed, apprehended and committed to Litchfield gaol; tried, found guilty, and publicly punished.—
After finding my credit and property were both lost, I then with less remorse of conference continu|ed the horrid practice of Stealing, till the com|mencement of the War, in April, 1775; at which time, I served my Country faithfully. I then list|ed for the term of three years into the Regiment commanded by C. I. Meigs of Connecticut, who wrongfully kept my bounty money, which gave me such a dislike to the Man, that while the Regiment was stationed at Peek's Kill's on the east side of Hudson's River, I deserted said Regiment, about ten or twelve days before the surrender of General Burgoyne. After I left my Regiment I roved through the States of Connecticut, and Massachu|setts, and finally went to the Town of Amherst in New-Hampshire where I tarried several years; dur|ing which time I paid attentio