An aduertisement of corruption in our handling of religion To the Kings Majestie. By Hugh Broughton.


AN ADVERTI∣SEMENT OF COR∣RVPTION IN OVR HANDLING OF RELIGION. To the Kings Majestie.
By HVGH BROVGHTON.
1604.
To the Kings Maiestie.GREAT and deadly errours (most Gracious Soveraigne) runne currant in England: as good Divinitie: for which God, from whom ever trespas receyveth iust recompence, doth and will plague the deceavers and deceaved. They which know the errours may not be si∣lent: though the errers haue shewed teeth of Iron and hard faces against their warner for better counsell. And only your Ma∣iestie can, and you must force the deceavers to confesse before all the world, how they haue bene led amisse.
Of accusing the holy text, most pure, and expressing Gods wisedome.MOses telleth that Abraham bought a buriall place in Hebron, for price of money, and that Iacob bought a field in Sychem for lambes: and Iacob was buried in Hebrō, and the Patriarkes in Sychem. Now if a man should say that Iacob was buried in Sychem, he reiecteth Moses, & all the authoritie of God. Or if he say that Abraham bought the field which Iacob bought, and say that Abrahā bought Sychems plot for money, The vntrueth is augmented: yet all this doe our right reverend Fathers. In these wordes from Act. 7.16. and 17. as they would make the simple to beleeve: And Iacob descended into Egypt, and dyed, both he, and our Fathers, and were caried over into Sychem, and layd in the sepulchre that Abraham bought for money of the sonnes of Emor, the sonne of Sichem. By this Iacob should be caried to Sychem, and be buried there: and Abraham should be the

purchaser, and for money, and Iacob and the Patriarches should be buried together. So the Iewes would say that Machmad makes no greater madnes in his Al-koran: see∣ing Abrahams purchase was in Hebron, & for 400. sickles: and that of Sychem was Iacobs, & for an hundreth lambes. And Iacob was buried in Hebron, as was told, & the twelue sonnes in Sychem. The Bishops sawe that this was most false: & runne from euill to worse. And thus their mar∣gent note speaketh, vpon vers. 16. For (B) money. Here appeareth an errour. For Abraham seemeth to be put in the text in the steed of Iacob. For Iacob bought the sepulchre of Emor, and not Abraham, who bought before a field of Ephron. Thus we accuse the holy Ghost for giuing vs a corrupted New Testament. And our countries heard not that any Greke copy from the first to the last differed here. So the first should be corrupt: & so Machmad should say truely, that we had not a pure N. Testament. Also the Iewes rule should condemne vs: a comon rule & generall: in Thalm. Ierus. San. fo. 20. Diathece se batelah Mikzathah batelah cullah. A Testament which faileth in part, faileth in the whole. This our errour is not first ours, but old, and knowen to Iewes: whereby their millions despise the Gospell, and hold S. Stephen no martyr: as missing in Moses plain story. Whereas in trueth S. Stephen meant t