Medicina hydrostatica, or, Hydrostaticks applyed to the materia medica shewing how by the weight that divers bodies, us'd in physick, have in water : one may discover whether they be genuine or adulterate : to which is subjoyn'd a previous hydrostatical way of estimating ores / by the Honourable Robert Boyle ...


 [illustration] The Explication of the Figureaa The Beam.bb The Dishescc The Frame to suspend the Beam upon whichd a Sliding Sockete Its arme containingf a Pully over whichg An other Pully passesh A Line fastned toi A movable weight by which ye Beam is raised up, & let downe.k A Hair to suspendl The Body to be weigh'd in the water held inm The Glasse Cestornn The Buckit for Liquorso The Box of Grainsp The Forceps to manageq The Pile of Weightsr The handle of the Ballancssss The Table.
Medicina Hydrostatica: OR, HYDROSTATICKS Applyed to the MATERIA MEDICA. SHEWING, How by the Weight that divers Bodies, us'd in Physick, have in Water; one may discover Whether they be Genuine or Adulterate. To which is subjoyn'd, A Previous Hydrostatical Way of Estimating ORES. By the Honourable ROBERT BOYLE, Fellow of the Royal Society.
LONDON, Printed for Samuel Smith at the Sign of the Princes Arms, in St. Paul's Church-Yard, 1690.
THE PREFACE.I Am far from being fond of their Practice, that affect to give pompous and promising Titles to their Books; in so much that my Friends have several times re∣proached me with inclining too much to the opposite Extream. But yet I am not averse from prefixing to the ensuing Paper, the Title of Medicina Hydrostatica; not only for the Conveniency of Citations, (which are usually troublesome to make in Tracts that have long Ti∣tles;) but because too I am Invited, if not Authorized to do it, by the Example of the famous and judici∣ous Sanctorius; who scrupled not to prefix the Name of Medicina Statica,
to a Writing almost as Small, as 'tis Ingenious, which applys the Bal∣lance to Some Uses relating to the Medicinal Art, perhaps not More, than will be here found proposed of the same Instrument, improv'd by some Additions. And 'tis scarce to be doubted, but that in this In∣quisitive Age, the Sagacity of the Curious will make, both of what he has discovered, and of what I have delivered, useful Applications, that neither He, nor I, ever thought of.
If the chief thing, I aimed at in Writing, had been to gain Applause, I would have taken a more likely way to obtain it, than by treating of a Subject, wherein few will think themselves concerned, (tho' many in reallity be so, and whose Importance does not at first view appear.) And this Subject too, the Nature of it has obliged me, to treat of in such a way, that it will be almost as un∣pleasant to the Reader to peruse so unadorned a piece, as it was trou∣blesome to the Author to write so

Toilesome an One. And indeed when I came to take notice of the Number of Particulars, that I had brought together into this little Book; I did my self somewhat won∣der, how I came to be preva