His Majesties last most gracious message of Decemb. 20. 1646. to the Lords and Commons of the Parliament of England assembled at Westminster: and to the Commissioners of the Parliament of Scotland at London, for a personall treaty.


HIS MAJESTIES Last most gracious MESSAGE Of DECEMB. 20. 1646.
TO THE LORDS & COMMONS Of the Parliament of ENGLAND Assembled at Westminster:
And to the Commissioners of the Parli∣ament of SCOTLAND at London, for a Personall Treaty.
Printed in the Yeere, MDCXLVI.
His Majesties last most gracious Mes∣sage of Dec. 20. 1646. to the Lords and Commons of the Parliament of England assembled at VVestmin∣ster, and to the Commissioners of the Parliament of Scotland at London, for a Personall Treaty.Charles R.HIS Majesties thoughts being alwayes sincere∣ly bent to the Peace of His Kingdomes, was and will be ever desi∣rous to take all wayes which might the most cleerly make appeare the candour of His intentions to His peo∣ple.
And to this end could find no bet∣ter way then to propose a Personall free debate with His two Houses of Parlia∣ment upon all the present differences. Yet finding very much against His expectati∣ons, that this offer was laid aside, His Ma∣jesty bent all His thoughts to make His in∣tentions fully knowne by a particular An∣swer to the Propositions delivered to Him in the name of both Kingdomes, 24. Iuly last. But the more He endeavoured it, He more plainly saw that any Answer He could make would be subject to mis-in∣formations and mis-constructions, which upon His owne Paraphrases and Explana∣tions He is most confident will give so good satisfaction, as would doubtlesse cause a happy and lasting Peace. Lest there∣fore that good intentions may produce ill effects, His Majesty againe proposeth, and desires againe to come to LONDON, or any of His Houses thereabouts, upon the Publike Faith and Security of His two Houses of Parliament, and the Scotch Commissioners, that He shall be there with Honour, Freedome and Safety:
Where, by His Personall Presence, He may not onely raise a mutuall confidence betwixt Him and His People, but also have those doubts cleared, and those dif∣ficulties explained to Him, without which Hee cannot (but with the afore∣said mischievous inconveniences) give a particular Answer to the Propositions: And with which He doubts not but so to manifest His reall intentions for the setling of Religion, the just priviledges of Parliament, with the Freedome and Pro∣perty of the Subject, that it shall not be in the power of wicked and malicious men to hinder the establishing of that firme Peace which all honest men desire. As∣suring them that as He will make no o∣ther Demands but such as He beleeves confidently to be just, and much condu∣cing to the Tranquility of the People: So He will be most willing to condescend to them in whatsoever shall be really for their good and happinesse. Not doubting likewise but you will also have a due re∣gard to maintaine the just Power of the
Crowne, according to you