A sermon preached on the 8. day of May 1615. in the parish Church of S. Stephen in Walbrooke London. At an anniuersarie solemnitie and assemblie of the Companie of Grocers of London. In commemoration of their ancient and first beginning to be a companie. By R.F. Doctor in Diuinitie


A SERMON Preached on the 8. day of May 1615. in the Parish-Church of S. STEPHEN in Walbrooke London.
At an anniuersarie Solem∣nitie and assemblie of the Companie of Grocers of LONDON.
In commemoration of their ancient and first beginning to be a Companie.
BY R. F. DOCTOR in Diuinitie.
LONDON Printed for William Aspley.
1615.
TO THE Right Worshipfull and his singular good PATRONS, the Companie of the GROCERS.R. F. Wisheth the increase of all peace and happinesse.RIght worship∣full, although it be much a∣gainst my disposition,
 who preach so often, to commit any one Ser∣mon to the publike view, especially this, whereof I haue as meane conceit as of the rest ordinarily de∣liuered. Notwithstan∣ding, if it may giue any satisfaction, I doe humbly intreat, that you would be pleased to accept of so small a testimonie of my greater thankefulnesse. To whom as I acknow∣ledge
 my selfe much obliged, so shall I euer be readie to render a farre greater signifi∣cation of my dutie. And albeit this sub∣iect deserueth to bee amplified much more then my leasure in the throng of other busi∣nesse would at this time permit: yet vn∣derstanding of a ru∣mour spread, as if vpon conference with some, I should beginne
 to alter my minde; I haue chosen rather to set it downe word for word as it was at that time vttered, then to enlarge any branch of it. I laboured most to deliuer the naked truth in this point, without ornament of speech: such nakednesse is ne∣uer to bee ashamed. Thus desiring Almigh∣tie God that the sim∣ple truth may so worke vpon the consciences
 of euery one for the establishing of peace, order, and gouernment amongst vs, that we may haue a most ten∣der care of all such Oathes from that Oath of Allegeance to his Maiestie, to the Oathes taken by the meanest Church-Wardens in our parishes: I doe humbly commend you in my praiers to the gratious protection of the Almightie.
From S. Stephens Walbrooke, Lon∣don.May 25. 1615.R. F.HEB. 6. 16.For men verily sweare by him that is greater: an Oath amongst them is an end of all strife.AN oath is the strongest cō∣firmation of a truth auerred, and the most religious ob∣ligation of any thing promised that is to be
 found vnder heauen. So holy, that God hath hallowed it no otherwise then his owne Sabaoth both by precept and exam∣ple. For as the fourth Cōmandement is not only sanctified by di∣uine precept, Remem∣ber thou keepe holy the Sabaoth day, but by Gods owne example, Hee rested the seuenth day, wherefore the Lord blessed the seuenth day and hallowed it. In like manner this affirmi∣tiue part of the third Commaundement is
 sanctified by precept as a part of Gods wor∣shippe, Ess. 45. 23. E∣uery knee shall bow to me, and euery tongue shal