A solemne and seasonable warning:  to the noblemen, barons, gentlemen, burrows, ministers, and commons of Scotland: as also to the Scotish armies without and within that kingdom. From the Generall Assembly, 12 Feb. 1645. And the humble remonstrance of the aforesaid Assembly to the King, 13. Feb. 1645.


A SOLEMNE AND SEASONABLE WARNING To the Noblemen, Barons, Gentle∣men, Burrows, Ministers, and Commons of Scotland: As also to the Scotish Armies without and within that Kingdom.
From the Generall Assembly, 12 Feb. 1645.
And the humble Remonstrance of the aforesaid Assembly to the King, 13. Feb. 1645.
Shall the Watch-men of Sion be silent, when Israel is in trouble?
LONDON, Printed by J. Raworth, in the yeer 1645. According to the Copy printed at Edinburgh.
12 Feb. 1645. Postmeridiem. Sess. XVIII.THe Generall Assembly, after mature delibe∣ration, having found it most necessary that this whole Nation be timely Warned, and duly Informed of their present Dangers, and the Remedies to be used, and Duties to be done for preventing and removing thereof; Doth ordain this Warning to be fortwith Printed and Published, and sent to all the Presbyteries in this Kingdom, as also to the Presbyteries that are with our Armies. And that each Presbytery, immediately after the receipt hereof, take speedy course for the Reading of it in every Congrega∣tion within their bounds, upon the Lords day after the forenoons Sermon, and before the Blessing: And that they give account of their diligence herein to the Com∣missioners of the Generall Assembly; Who have hereby Power and Warrant to try and censure such as shall con∣temne or slight the said Warning, or shall refuse or neglect to obey this Ordinance.
A Solemne and Seasonable Warning to the Noblemen, Barons, Gentlemen, Burrows, Ministers, and Commons of Scotland: As also to our Armies without and within this Kingdom. From the Generall Assembly, 12 Feb. 1645.THe Cause of God in this Kingdom, both in the beginnings and progresse of it, hath been carried, through much craft and migh∣ty opposition of Enemies, and through other perplexities and dangers; God so disposing, for the greater glory of his manifold and marvellous Wisdom, and his invincible Power, & for our greater tryall.
These dangers both from without and from within, together with the remedies thereof, have been from time to time represented and held forth, in the many publick Supplications of this Kirk and Kingdom to the King, and in their many Declarations, Remonstrances, Letters, Acts, and other publick Intimations: Particularly by a necessary Warn∣ing, published by the Commissioners of the Generall Assembly in Janua∣ry 1643. And by the Remonstrance of the same Commissioners to the Convention of Estates in July thereafter, concerning the Dangers of Re∣ligion, and the Remedies of these Dangers. Which Warning and Re∣monstrance at that time had, by the blessing of God, very good and com∣fortable effects. And now the Generall Assembly it self, being by a spe∣ciall