A remonstrance of His Sacred Royal Majesty of Sweden, unfolding the grounds and causes whereby His said Majesty was constrained to continue the war brought on by the king and Kingdom of Denmark, after the peace was ratified at Roskild, but neither pursu'd nor duly observ'd by the Danes· Anno 1658.


A REMONSTRANCE OF HIS Sacred Royal Majesty OF SWEDEN, Unfolding the GROUNDS and CAUSES whereby His said Majesty was constrained to continue the WAR brought on him by the King and Kingdom of DENMARK, After the PEACE was ratified at Roskild, But neither Pursu'd nor duly Observ'd by the DANES. Anno 1658.
LONDON, Printed by R. Wood for D. Pakeman, and are to be sold at his Shop at the Sign of the Rain-bow in Fleet-street, 1659.
HIS MAJESTY OF SWEDENS Remonstrance, Declaring the Reasons that forc'd him to continue the WAR with DENMARK after the Treaty at Roskild.THere are principally two things which can∣not but affect any man with wonder, that shall without partiality weigh and observe the course and carriage of this War betwixt the Swedes and Danes, to wit, the singular moderation, which his Sacred Royal Majesty of Sweden to his Princely Renown, hath ex∣pressed and approved to the World: and on the other side, the extreme Ingratitude, whereby the Nation of Denmark hath deservedly contracted a foul and lasting infamy.
For when the most Serene his Majesty of Sweden, was by mature and weighty Reasons drawn forth to a War against Poland, and that he fail'd not of such success as usually accom∣pany just undertakings, the Danes grew streightwayes malici∣ously
affected to our Victories, deeming our Acquists to be their loss and detriment: nor could they contain or forbear to publish these envious Passions, but they must be practising with the the States of Holland to give some check to the pro∣gress of the Swede in Prussia; at least they readily granted a free passage to the States Fleet through the Sound, contrary to their Faith given to us, and also joyn'd with them as many of their own men of War as they had in readiness, and that to no other purpose, but onely to second the cross and sinister Designs of the Dantzickers, and to heighten and embitter the Pole against the Swede.
And though this might have serv'd for a sufficient testimony of their meaning to us, yet they held it too scant, unless they had also urg'd the Muscovite to make a War on the Swedes, pro∣pounding the goodliest Christian Provinces as a booty, to the exquisite Cruelties of barbarous Nations. Nor was the Play acted under a mask, as by men asham'd to own their parts, but they sent a pompous Embassy to congratulate the com∣ing of the Muscovite into Liefland; solemnly exhorting him constantly to stick to, and effectually to prosecute so worthy a Design.
His most Serene Majesty of Sweden having been duly re∣gardful to that Amity, which his Neighborhood and Confede∣racy with the Danes required, to prevent any perverse opinion that might be raised on his preparation for War, had in due season d