The second set of madrigales to 3. 4. 5. and 6. parts apt both for voyals [sic] and voyces. Newly composed by Iohn Wilbye. 1609.




CANTVS. THE SECOND SET OF MADRIGALES TO 3. 4. 5. and 6. parts, apt both for Voyals and Ʋoyces.
Newly Composed BY IOHN WILBYE.
1609
LONDON: Printed by Tho Este alias Snodham, for Iohn Browne, and are to be sould at his shop in S. Dunstones Churchyard in Fleetstreet.

TO THE MOST NOBLE and Vertuous Lady, the Lady Arbella Stuart.Madame.THE deepe understanding you have in all the Arts, and perticular excellency in this of Musicke, doth by a cer∣taine kinde of right, challenge the Dedication of the bet∣ter sort of Labours in that Facultie; especially in these times when Musicke sits solitary among her sister Sci∣ences, and (but for your Honour) often wants the fortune to be esteemed (for so shee is worthy) euen among the worthyest. But besides that generall right, my true and zealous deuotion long since de∣sirous to expresse it selfe in any humble dutie to your Honour, and borne up by the daily experience of your most Noble and singular disposition, hath neuer thought upon other Patron for this work, then your Honour, whose neuer-failing Iudgement in the depth of Musicke, I do wish might be pleased with some of these; which happinesse if they attaine, I know not what iudgement can avow to mislike them. Howsoeuer they behaue themselues, I humbly beseech your Honour, to beleeue this truth; that they are the sincere oblations of a heart euer prepared for your seruice. And so with all humble and due reuerence done to your Honour, I be∣seech the Almighty to make you in all the passages of your life truely hap∣py, as you are in the worlds true opinion vertuous.
Your Honours most humbly deuoted and obliged: IOHN WILBYE.



THE TABLE.

Songs to 3. Uoyces.
COme shepheard Swaynes that wont to heare me sing. I
Flourish yee hillockes set with fragrant flowers. II
Ah, cruell Amarillis since thou takst delight. III
So light is Loue in matchlesse beautie shining. IIII
As fayre as Morne, as fresh as May. V
O what shall I doe, or whither shall I turne me? VI
I liue, and yet me thinks I doe not breath. VII
There is a Iewell which no Indian Mines can buy. Risposta. VIII


Songs to 4. Uoyces.
WHen Cloris heard of her Amint as dying. IX
Happy streames whose trembling fall. X
Change me O heauens into the Ruby stone. XI
Loue not me for comely grace. XII
Fly not so swift my Deere. XIII
I loue alas, yet am not loued. XIIII
As matchlesse beauty thee a Phoenix proues. XV
Happy, oh happy he who not affecting. XVI


Songs to 5. Uoyces.
SWeet hony sucking Bees. First Part. XVII
Yet sweet take heed, all sweets are hard to get. Second part. XVIII
All pleasure is of this condition. XIX
Oft haue I vowde how deerly I did loue thee. XX
Downe in a valley as Alexis trips. First Part. XXI
Hard Destinies are Loue and Beautie parted? Second Part. XXII
Weepe O mine eyes, my heart can take no rest. XXIII
There where I saw her louely beautie painted. XXIIII
Yee th