God glorious in the scenes of the winter. A sermon preach'd at Boston. December 23. 1744 [1745 n.s.]. / By Mr. Byles. ; [Two lines from John]


GOD Glorious IN THE Scenes of the Winter. A SERMON Preach'd at BOSTON. December 23. 1744.
By Mr. BYLES.
John x. 22, 23.It was Winter. And JESUS walked in the Temple.
BOSTON: Printed by B. GREEN and Company for D. GOOKIN, over against the old South Meeting-House. 1744.
GOD Glorious IN THE Scenes of the Winter.PSALM cxlvii. 16, 17.He giveth Snow like Wool; he scattereth the hoar Frost like Ashes.
He casteth forth his Ice like Morsels; Who can stand before his Cold?
THE Glories of God the Creator, are every where seen in his Works, and preached in his Word. Look where we will in his World, we see them; and attend where we will to his Word, and we hear them. The holy Scriptures begin with the Declaration, That In the Beginning God created the Heavens and the Earth; and the Account is carried on, and interspersed thro' all the sacred Pages. The Honours of God are here celebrated, in his
Power and Sovereignty, and creating Attributes. Psal. lxxiv. 16, 17. The Day is thine, the Night also is thine: Thou hast prepared the Light and the Sun: Thou hast set all the Borders of the Earth: Thou hast made the Summer and the Winter. The great Frame of Nature is the Work of God: He orders all the Motions of Nature, and is himself the first Mover. He is the Owner and Proprietor of Nature then; and the Day and Night, the Light and Sun, the Summer and Winter are his.
But it is the Winter Scene that now opens. And the Skies and the Earth around, and the sacred Volume before us unite to claim our Honours to the God of Glory, as he appears grand at the Head of this Part of Nature and Pro∣vidence, He sendeth forth his Commandment upon Earth; his Word runneth very swiftly. He giveth Snow like Wool; he scattereth the Hoar-frost like Ashes. He casteth forth his Ice like Morsels; who can stand before his Cold?
The Theme before us is, GOD is adorable in the Scenes of the Winter. How does it appear? And what Evidence can we bring for it? It is proved every Way: And Con∣viction pours in upon us from all Quarters. He has created it; He has established it; He still continues to bring it upon the Earth; He gives us the Sensation of it; a Capacity to feel it, in the Disposition of our Bodily Or∣gans: And he acts, and operates in all the second Causes, that conspire to form it.
1. He has created it. The Cold it self is a Creature of God. Some have argued Cold to be only the Privation of Heat, as Darkness is only the Privation of Light. But even in this Sense, God who forms the Heat and the Light, is the Author of the Cold and the Darkness. He lays his Claim, in the Letter as well as the Metaphor, I form the Light: I create Darkness. But there is something further in the Nature and Philosophy of Cold, than a bare Privati∣on.
A Non-entity and Cold one would think were diffe∣rent. A cold Nothing were an absurd sort of Curiosity. Cold has reall