The tragicomoedi of the vertuous Octauia. Done by Samuel Brandon. 1598


THE TRA∣GICOMOEDI of the vertuous Octauia.
Done by SAMVEL BRANDON. 1598.
C•…rmen amat, quisquis carmine digna gerit.
 [illustration] 
LONDON Printed for William Ponsonbye, and are to be soulde at his shop in S. Paules Church∣yarde.
To the right honorable, and truly vertuous Ladie, the Ladie LVCIA AVDELAY: health, honor, happinesse and heauen.
RAre Phoenix, which your life do sacrifice,
In vertues flame, to finde a life diuine:
Rich treasurer, of heauens best treasuries,
In whom worth wisdome honor vertues shine.
Sdaine not, these art lesse humble •…ines to view,
With honors eyes let vertues plaints be scan'd,
That she whose vertues doubled are in you,
By you may scape from Lybitinas hand.
Hir dying fame, by you may be preserued,
Whiles time, and men, and memory endure:
Your liuing name by hirs mought be reserued,
Did not these lines, too much hir worth obscure.
These lines, wherein, if ought be free from blame,
Your noble Genius taught my Pen the same.
All' autore.
THe Thracian Poet, that reuiu'd his wife,
Breeding in •…urtes, pitty, and delight;
Whose fame do•…th yet sur•…iue his shortned life,
Must honor yeeld to what thou doost indite.
For he, who oftentime•… by Musickes force,
Did serpents charme, streames stay, and trees remoue:
In womens mindes, could neuer mooue remorse,
As his vnhappy end doth plainly prooue.
Wherefore most praisd be thy praise worthy muse,
Which farre surmounts the might of antique age:
Winning that sexes grace, which did refuse
By hearing Orpheus, to relent their rage.
Because no musick with their minde accordes:
But that which vertues harmonie affordes.
MIA.Prosopopeia al libro.
WHen barking enuie saw thy birth,
it straight contemnd the same:
And arm'd his tongue, to giue a charge,
thy weakenesse to disfame.
But seeing honors golden hooke,
so linckt to vertues lyne:
He fled away as halfe afraid,
yet ceast not to repine.
But feare not Momus, make returne,
and haply for thy paine
Thou ma•…st Antonius coullors beare
when he reuiues againe.
S. B.The Argument.AFter the death of Iulius Caesar, & the ouerthrow of Brutus and Cassius the chiefe conspirators: the gouernment of the Romain Empire, remained vnto Octauius Caesar, Marke Antony, and (at that time) Sextus Pompeius. Marke Antony, to confirme an inuiolable league of amitie, betweene Caesar and himselfe: tooke to wife Octauia, the sister of Caesar. Antony and Caesar falling at debate, met at Tarentum with their armies, and had bin the cause of much bloudshed: but that they were appeased, by the wis∣dome of Octauia. Not long after, Antony going to make warre with the Parthians, and comming into Syria: the place renew∣ed the memory, and the memory reuiued

the long intermitted loue, he once bare to Cleopatra the Queene of Aegipt: he there∣fore wholy subiecting himselfe to the desire of this Cleopatra: forsaketh his vertuous wife Octauia. Wherevpon, hir brother Caesar disdaining that she should suffer s