A declaration and protestation, published by the King of Nauarre, the L. Prince of Conde, and the L. Duke of Montmorency, concerning the peace concluded with the house of Lorrayn, the captaines and chiefe aucthors of the league, to the preiudice of the house of Fraunce. Also two letters written by the sayd King of Nauarre. The one to the Parliament, the other to the maisters of Sorbonne. More an epistle written by Phillipp de Morney to the French King: hereunto, for the playner declaration of the innocencie of the sayd princes, are inserted the articles agreed vpon betweene the King and the Lordes of Guyze. All faithfully translated out of French


A
Declaration
and Protestation, published
by the King of Nauarre, the L. Prince of
Conde, and the L. Duke of Montmorency, concerning
the peace concluded with the house of Lorrayn,
the Captaines and chiefe aucthors of the
league, to the preiudice of the
house of Fraunce.
Also two Letters written by the sayd King of Nauarre.
The one to the Parliament, the other to the
Maisters of Sorbonne.
More an Epistle written by Philipp de Morney
to the French King:
Hereunto, for the playner declaration of the innocencie
of the sayd Princes, are inserted the Articles agreed
vpon betweene the King and the
Lordes of Guyze.
All faithfully translated out of French,
Imprinted at London for
Edward Aggas.
The Declaration
and Protestation.IT is not vnknowne to
all men, and they may
soone call to minde in
what estate the affaires
of this Realme stoode,
and of what minde the
King was, when the
house of Lorrayn vnder the title of a Holy
league began to raise Wars against his Ma∣iestie
& to trouble the quiet estate of this
Realme. For through Gods grace Peace
began to take roote in the depth of mens
hearts, and thence to expell all hartbur∣ning
and mistrust: Iustice vnder the wings
thereof gathered strength by the exerci•e
of lawes: Religion on both parts crept into
credite in mens consciences, whence the
licencious libertie of warres had almost
expelled it: Nobilitie grewe into familia∣ritie
& gaue ouer partialities and factiōs:
The Cōmons after so many mischiefes and
calamities, began to enioye the fruites of

their labours, and through such good or∣der
as the King had taken, were in possi∣bilitie
speedely to bee freed from the pil∣lage
and insolencie of the Souldier. To be
brief, the miseries and calamities incident
to warres grewe into obliuion, and were
almost buried vnder the commodities of
peace, which was mightily prosecuted and
daylie cherished through the Kings wise∣dome,
to whom nothing was in such re∣commendation
as the continuaunce and
establishing of the same. For if on either
side there remained any scarre of the aun∣cient
miseries, which the peace (that yet
had not beene of so long continuaunce or
force as the warre) could not cleerely de∣face,
the King, who had both noted the
mischiefe and founde out the remedie,
through that dayly care that he tooke for
the affayres of his Realme, was surely en∣tred
such a pa