Children well imployed, and, Jesus much delighted: or, The hosannahs of Zion's children, highly pleasing to Zion's King: a plain discourse lately preach'd to the children of the South-Parish in Andover: : and now dedicated to their use: / by Samuel Phillips, M.A. and V.D.M. ; Published at the desire of many of his hearers, both parents and children. ; [Six lines of Scripture texts]


Mr. Phillips's SERMON ON The Children's HOSANNAHS.
CHILDREN well imployed, and, JESUS much delighted: OR, The Hosannahs OF Zion's CHILDREN, Highly PLEASING TO Zion's KING: A plain Discourse lately preach'd to the CHILDREN of the South-Parish in Andover: And now dedicated to their Use: By SAMUEL PHILLIPS, M. A. And V. D. M. Published at the Desire of many of his Hearers, both Parents and Children.
Matt. xix.14.JESUS said, suffer LITTLE CHIL|DREN, and forbid them not, to come unto me, for of such is the Kingdom of Heaven.
And therefore,
Psal. cxlix.2.Let the CHILDREN of Zion be joyful in their KING.
BOSTON: Printed by S. Kneeland, and T. Green, for D. Henchman, in Cornhill. 1739.
TO The CHILDREN belonging to my Congregation.MY DEAR CHILDREN._I Do here, as I proposed in my last—, present to your View, a plain Discourse compose•for you, and, not long since, preach|ed to you:— The true De|sign and Scope of which, is, to quicken, and encourage you, (more especial|ly) now, in your tender Yars, to adorn the Doctrine of God our Saviour, in all the Instances of a well ordered Conversation, and to assist you in so doing: And, in a more peculiar Manner, in those religious Exercises of PRAYER and PRAISE; the devout and
i
frequent Practice of which, will be your own greatest H•nour and Ornament —.
I am very sensible, that the Word in the Original, which is translated Children, in my T•xt, does not always, and only intend Children in Years: Fo•, we are h•reby to understand, not only little Children, but sometimes, either Sons, — Daughters,— Servants, or Maidens; and sometimes, even all the Domesticks, excepting the Master and Mistress of the Family : But then I shall further say, that, even, from hence it follows, that little Children are not exempted; nay, but the Word bids as fair for them, as for those who are something more advanced in Age: Yea, and without Doubt, there were some such, who joined with the Multitude, in this Acclamation, v•z. Hosanna to the Son of David: "And t•uly, the Praise was perfected by the sweet Voices of these Lambs; yea, it had been Defective if these had been wanting ."
It will be very easy for you to observe, that I consider you, in this Discourse, not as in your Childhood only; but also, as hast'ning on a pace, if your Lives be spared, into the midst of numerous Temptations; and therefore this little
ii
Book may be profitable to you, not only now, but also in your more advanced Age 
And, O! that I might be a happy Instru|ment, in the Hand of my great Lord and Master, not only, of nourishing you up in the Words of Faith, and of good Doctrine; but, mo