By the Council of State. A proclamation. The Council of State being informed, that since the officers of the armies under the Lord Generals Command, by their late humble remonstrance and address, declared their resolution to observe such commands as they shall receive from his excellency, or the Council of State, or the Parliament when assembled; ...


❧ By the Council of State. A PROCLAMATION.THe Council of State being Informed, That since the Officers of the Ar∣mies
under the Lord Generals Command, by their late Humble Remon∣strance
and Address, Declared their resolution to observe such Commands as
they shall receive from His Excellency, or the Council of State, or the Par∣liament
when Assembled; some Persons designing to obstruct the Nations
Settlement, have not been wanting to endeavour the removal of some in the
Army from their stability and temper; And to accomplish so mischievous a Design, have
scattered and fomented (among other untruths) false rumours, That there is an Intenti∣on
to deprive the Souldiers of their Arrears of Pay; Against which Attempt the Coun∣cil
are well perswaded the fidelity and Interest of the Souldiers will be a good Securi∣ty:
Yet to the intent a Report so false in it self, and so destructive in its aim, may not make
the more easie Impressions upon any, through its passing uncontradicted, and thereby
gratifie those only, who seek advantages, by lengthning out our troubles. The Council
of State do hereby Declare, That it is not in their intention or thoughts, to retrench or
abate any part of the Arrears, that are, or shall be due to the Souldiers, whilst they con∣tinue
in the Army, and in their obedience: But that on the contrary, it shall be their endea∣vour
to encourage them, by taking care for satisfying their Arrears, as soon as there shall
be opportunity, in such sort as to make an actual, aswell as verbal confutation, to so false
a suggestion.
Fryday 13 Aprill. 1660. At the Council of State at Whitehall.ORdered, That this Proclamation be forthwith Printed and Published.
JOHN RUSHWORTH,
Clerk of the Council.LONDON, Printed by Abel Roper and Tho. Collins, Printers to the Council of State.