A peace-offering to God a sermon preached to the honourable House of Commons assembled in Parliament at their publique thanksgiving, September 7, 1641 : for the peace concluded between England and Scotland / by Stephen Marshall ...


A Pece-Offering to God.
A
SERMON
Preched to the Honourble House
of Commons ssembled in
PARLIAMENT,
At their publique Thnksgiving,
September 7. 1641. For the PEACE concluded between
ENGLAND nd SCOTLAND. By STEPHEN MARSHALL, Btchelour
in Divinity, Minister of Finchingfield
in ESSEX.
Pslme. 147.Prise the Lord O Jeruslem, prise thy God O Sion: for he hth
strengthened the Brs of thy Gtes, nd blessed thy children
within thee, He mketh Pece▪ in thy Borders.Published by Order of the sid House.
LONDON:
Printed by T. P. nd M. S. for SAMUEL MAN, dwel∣ling
in St. Puls Church-yrd, t the signe
of the Swn. 1641.
TO THE HONORABLE
House of Commons ssembled
in PARLIAMENT.THe mercies which God hth shewed to
these two Ntions of Englnd nd Scot∣lnd,
giving us such gret cuse nd
mtter of Thnksgiving, cusing our
shefe to rise nd stnd upright, m∣king
us with Sul higher by the shoulders then ll
our brethren; these mercies (I sy) deserve so to be
recorded, tht posterity should be compelled to red
nd dmire them: but who is sufficient for this thing?
It ws sid of Cludin, tht he wnted mtter suit∣ble
to the excellency of his wit: but where is the
hed or hert suitble to this mtter?Who cn utter
these mighty works of the Lord, who cn shew forth ll his
prise? For my own prt hd I put my self upon this
work to utter these men conceptions upon this gret
subject before so gret nd honorble Audience, I
might justly hve been condemned for busing both
the one nd the other. But you were plesed to com∣mnd
my service in preching on the dy of your
publique nd solemne Thnksgiving, it my be be∣cuse
I ws then neer t hnd, nd fter your Reverent
ttention hd testified tht you received them s the
counsell of God, you were further plesed expresly
to desire me forthwith to print nd publish wht in
my weknesse I then delivered, I suppose for the bet∣ter
memorill of these gret delivernces; I could

hve pleded much, why these poore notes should
not be exposed to publike view; Tretises to be red
by ll, should be long meditted, often reviewed:
Excellent pictures should be engrven in brsse, nd
not cst in cly: the setting forth these mercies, nd
quickning up nswerble Thnkfulnesse re bove the
Abilities of ny mn, much more beyond the cpcity
of my self, the wekest nd unworthiest of mny thou∣snds;
But your Order left me not t liberty to do
wht I desired, you hve thus mde them your own,
the more fcile I shll hope to finde you, nd ll In∣genuous
Reders towrds my weknesses, which not
presumption but my obedience hth mde thus pub∣lique.
This further encourgement I hve, little
things hve been ccepted with God nd mn in testi∣monill
of Thnkfulnesse;  femle,  Turtle,  hndfull
of whet-floure by God himself;  hndfull of wter, 
bunch of grpes, &c. by gret Kings nd Emperours.
And even under this No