An oration, which might have been delivered to the students in anatomy, on the late rupture between the two schools in this city.


AN ORATION, WHICH MIGHT HAVE BEEN DELIVERED TO THE STUDENTS IN ANATOMY, ON THE LATE RUPTURE BETWEEN THE TWO SCHOOLS IN THIS CITY.
PHILADELPHIA: PRINTED BY T. DOBSON AND T. LANG, IN SECOND STREET. FEBRUARY, 1789.
The ARGUMENT.ADDRESS—the folly and danger of dissention—the Orator enumerates the enemies of the fraternity—reminds them of a late unseasonable interruption—a night scene in the Potter's Field—he laments the want of true zeal in the brotherhood—and boasts of his own—the force of a ruling passion—the earth con|sidered as a great animal—the passion of love not the same in a true son of Esculapius as in other men—his own amour—a picture of his mistress in high taste—shews his learning in the description of her mouth, arm and hand—his mistress dies— his grief—and extraordinary consolation—his unparallel'd fidelity—he apologizes for giving this history of his amour—the great difficulties Anatomists have to encounter in the present times, arising from false delicacy, prejudice and ignorance—a strong instance in proof that it was not so formerly—curious argument to prove the inconsistency of the present opinions re|specting

the practice—he mentions many obstacles in the road to science—and reproaches them for their intestine broils, at a time when not only popular clamour is loud, but even the powers of government are exerted against them—he then encourages his brethren with hopes of better times, founded on the establish|ment of the College of Physicians—is inspired with the idea of the future glory of that institution—and prophesies great things.
AN ORATION, WHICH MIGHT HAVE BEEN DELIVERED, &c.FRIENDS and associates! lend a patient ear,
Suspend intestine broils and reason hear.
Ye followers of F— your wrath forbear—
Ye sons of S— your invectives spare;
The fierce dissention your high minds pursue
Is sport for others—ruinous to you.
SURELY some fatal influenza reigns,
Some epidemic rabies turns your brains—
Is this a time for brethren to engage
In public contest and in party rage?
Fell discord triumphs in your doubtful strife
And, smiling, whets her anatomic knife;
Prepar'd to cut our precious limbs away
And leave the bleeding body to decay—
SEEK ye for foes!—alas, my friends, look round,
In ev'ry street, see num'rous foes abound!
Methinks I hear them cry, in varied tones,
"Give us our father's—brother's—sister's bones."
Methinks I see a mob of sailors rise—
Revenge!—revenge! they cry—and damn their eyes—
Revenge for comrade Jack, whose flesh, they say,
You minc'd to morsels and then threw away.
Methinks I see a black infernal train—
The genuine offspring of accursed Cain—
Fiercely on you their angry looks are bent,
They grin and gibber dangerous discontent
And seem to say—"Is there not meat enough!
"Ah! massa cannibal, why eat poor CUFF?"
Ev'n hostile watchmen stand in strong array
And o'er our heads their threat