Animadversions on two pamphlets lately publish'd by Mr. Collier the one call'd, A defence of the absolution given to Sir William Parkins at the place of execution, April 3d, the other, A vindication thereof, occasion'd by a paper entituled, A declaration of the sense of the achbishops [sic] and bishops, &c. : shewing the nature of the late absolution, both as to church and state : in a letter to a friend.


ANIMADVERSIONS
ON
Two Pamphlets
Lately Publish'd by
Mr. COLLIER.
The one call'd, A Defence of the Abso∣lution
given to Sir William Parkins at the
Place of Execution, April 3d.
The other, A Vindication thereof; occasion'd
by a Paper entituled, A Declaration of the
Sense of the Achbishops and Bishops, &c.
Shewing the Nature of the late Absolution, both as to
CHURCH and STATE.
In a LETTER to a Friend.
LONDON:
Printed for John Everingham, at the Star in Ludgate-Street,
near the West End of St. Pauls. 1696.
Animadversions
ON
Two Pamphlets
Lately Published by
Mr. COLLIER.SIR,ACcording to your Desire, I have sent you
here my Thoughts concerning the Proceed∣ings
of the three Absolving Clergymen, at
Sir J. Friend's and Sir W. Parkins's Executi∣on,
together with some short Remarks on Mr. Col∣lier's

two Papers in which he has endeavour'd to
justify those Proceedings.
I shall consider 'em, First, With Relation to the
Church; and Secondly, With relation to the State.
As they are considered with Relation to the Church;
I take 'em to be irregular and unwarrantable on seve∣ral
accounts.
For, 1st. Such an Imposition of Hands, as those Clergy-men
made use of in the Absolution, is by no means
warrantable. Mr. Collier endeavours to shew that the
giving of Absolution, with imposition of Hands,
was the general Practise of the Antient Churches,
particularly in St. Cyprian's Age, and that the per∣formance
of this Ceremony was allow'd to Priests,
and sometimes to Deacons as well as Bishops.
Suppose all this, Yet this Practice of those Anti∣ents
does not at all justify Mr. Collier's Proceedings
in this Point, and that for these two Reasons.
1st. The Absolution in which those Antients
made use of Imposition of Hands, was not such an
Absolution as that in which Mr. C. was concern'd;
but an Absolution of Persons Excommunicated, or
such as had deserted the Communion of the Church.
It was customary in the Antient Church to Ex∣communicate
such as had committed any very grie∣vous
and notorious Crime, and after they had given
the Church Satisfaction, and were again to be re∣conciled

to it; they were Absolv'd from the Cen∣sure
of the Church by the Imposition of Hands.
What they meant in this Case by the Laying on of
Hands, we may learn from S. Cyprian. They
look't upon those that were out of the Church, to
be depriv'd of the Holy Ghost, and (as he saith) not to
be truly Christians. And, as now in our Ordinations, we
make use of the Imposition of Hands; so the Anti∣ents
frequently made use of the same Ceremony for
restoring to the Communion of the Church, such
as before were E