A sermon preach'd at St. Mary-Le-Bow to the Societies for Reformation of Manners, June 28, 1697 / by John Russell.


A SERMON Preach'd at St. Mary-Le-Bow, TO THE SOCIETIES FOR Reformation of Manners, June 28. 1697.
By JOHN RƲSSELL, Rector of St. John of Wappin.
LONDON, Printed by J. Darby, for R. Mount at the Postern on Tower-hill. 1697.
TO THE READER.HE that will look over the Histo∣ries of the most famous King∣doms and Governments of the World, will find that they have been rais'd and carried on to their most ex∣alted Heights, (altho estrang'd to the Knowledg and Worship of the True God) by the Rules and Practices of Moral Ver∣tues: And that when the Babyloni∣an, the Persian, the Grecian and Ro∣man Monarchies fell to decay, it was Luxury and Vice that open'd the Door to let in that Ruin which transplanted the Scepter from one Kingdom to another People.
For as long as they kept to their Anti∣ent Vertue, which laid the Foundation, and also built up the Edifice of their
Strength and Grandeur; they maintain'd their Power, they continu'd their Em∣pire: but as soon as they grew loose and vicious, when Bribery and Corruption, Softness and Flattery seiz'd upon the Court, and Debauchery and Fraud, and contempt of Religion (altho a false one) had infected the People, they quickly grew ripe for those Judgments which swept them into that Pit of Destruction, which their Immoralities had been digging as the Grave of their dying Glory and Great∣ness.
And tho I do not affirm that Domini∣on is founded on Grace; yet I assert, That all flourishing Kingdoms are e∣stablished by Vertue: And that what People soever depart from that, they cut down the Props, and remove the Pillars that support their own Strength and Fe∣licity. And this is not only historically true, in respect of the Ages that are past and gone, but actually so in respect of our selves, and the very Age and Day in which we live: and it's not only so, in respect of the Nature of Vertue, which gives Men
a noble and elevated Mind, carries them thrô the greatest Difficulties, and by Jus∣tice and Honesty must necessarily cause the Sun of Prosperity to shine upon them: And on the other side, in respect of the Nature of Vice, which enervates and sof∣tens those that are its Vassals, takes away their Courage, brings on Fear, and creates those Jars and Jealousies among a People, which makes 'em divide, and become an easy Prey to the next bold Invader. I say, Ru∣in is not only the Consequent of Vice and Debauchery, in respect of the thing it self; but much more in respect of God, whose Justice and Holiness cannot allow, that a wicked People should long be happy or flourish in the enjoyment of those Fa∣vours which they have forfeited by their Impieties.
And to render this applicable to our selves, it's too apparent that we are a People fallen into a most wretched and de∣generate State, extreamly debauch'd both in Principles and Practices. And not∣withstanding God has gone on in a long course of Mercy towards this