A panegyrike congratulatorie to the Kings Maiestie Also certaine epistles, by Samuel Daniel.


A
PANEGYRIKE
CONGRATVLATORIE
TO THE KINGS
MAIESTIE. Also certaine Epistles, By SAMVEL DANIEL.
Carm•• ai••t quisquis carmina digna
gerit.A
PANEGYRIKE CONGRATV∣LATORIE
TO HIS
MAIESTIE.
1LO here the glory of a greater day
Then England euer heretofore could see
In all her dayes. When she did most display
The Ensignes of her powre, or whenas she
Did spread herselfe the most, and most did sway
Her state abroad, yet could she neuer be
Thus blesst at home, nor euer come to grow
To be intire in her full Orbe till now.

2And now she is, and now in peace therefore
Shake hands with Vnion, O thou mightie State,
Now thou art all great Brittaine, and no more,
No Scot, no English now, nor no debate:
No Borders but the Ocean, and the Shore,
No wall of Adrian serues to seperate
Our mutuall loue, nor our obedience,
All Subiects now to one imperiall Prince.

3What heretofore could neuer yet be wrought,
By all the swords of powre, by blood, by fire,
By ruine, and destruction, here is brought
To passe, with peace, with loue, with ioy desire:
Our former blessed vnion hath begot
A greater vnion that is more intire,
And makes vs more our selues, sets vs at one
With Nature that ordain'd vs to be one.

4Glory of men, this hast thou brought to vs,
And yet hast brought vs more than this by farre:
Religion comes with thee, peace, righteousnes,
Iudgement and Iustice, which more glorious are
Then all thy Kingdomes, and arte more by this,
Then Lord and Sou'raigne, more than Emperor
Ouer the hearts of men that let thee in
To more, than all the powres on Earth can win.

5God makes thee King of our estates, but we
Do make thee King of our affection,
King of our Loue, a passion borne most free,
And most vn-subiect to dominion:
And know, that England which in that degree
Can loue, with such a true deuotion
Those that are lesse than Kings, to thee must bring
More Loue, who art so much more than a King.

6And King of this great Nation, populous,
Stout, valiant, powrefull, both by Sea and Land,
Attemptiue, able, worthy, generous,
Which ioyfully imbraces thy command:
A people tractable, obsequious,
Apt to be fashion'd by thy glorious hand
To any forme of honor, t' any way
Of high attempts, thy vertues shall assay.

7A people so inur'd to peace, so wrought
To a successiue course of quietnesse,
As th'haue forgot (and O b'it still forgot,)
The nature of their ancient stubbornnesse;
Time altred hath the forme, the meanes, and brought
The state to that proportion'd euennesse,
As t' is not like againe t' will euer come
(Being vsde abroad) to draw the sword at home.

8This people, this great State, these hearts adore
Thy Scepter now, and now turne all to thee,
Toucht with as powrefull zeale, and if not more,
(And yet O more, how could there euer be
Than vnto her, whom yet we doe deplore
Amidst our Ioy?) And giue vs leaue if we
Reioyce and mourne, that cannot without wrong,
So soone forget her, we enio