State-maxims, or, Certain dangerous positions, destructive to the very natural right and liberty of mankind. Laid down in a book entituled, The grounds of government and obedience; by Tho. White Gent. / Discussed, and both by Scripture and reason confuted, by Will Ball Esq;


STATE-MAXIMS, OR, CERTAIN DANGEROUS POSITIONS, Destructive to the very natural Right and Liberty of Mankind.
Laid down in a Book entituled, The Grounds of Government and Obedience; By THO. WHITE Gent.
Discussed, and both by Scripture and Reason confuted, by WILL BALL Esq;
LONDON, Printed by G. Dawson, for T. Brewster at the three Bibles at the West-End of Pauls, 1655.
The Authors Motives inducing him to write and publish this small Treatise.FIrst, It hath in almost all Ages been too much the Practice of some able Wits, to advance a boundless Interest of Po∣tentates; as if that Majestas Imperii (not sa∣lus Populi) were the adequate, yea, total ob∣ject and end of all humane Government: by meanes whereof Oppression hath over∣spread, and Tyranny under yoaked many of the greatest and most flourishing Nations on the Earth. But such men (who have sometimes been Mercurialists, sometimes Martialists, sometimes both) might be term∣ed Humani Generis inimici, for that either in hopes of their own Preferments, or Applau∣ses, they exposed to sale (I might say ship∣wrack) the Natural, or innate Liberty of all mankind.
Secondly, There have alwayes been ma∣ny (too many) churlish stubborn Persons, who have hated and opposed Regular Civil
 Government (although Prudent and Mo∣derate) even as exorbitant Tyranny, and boundless Potency; but such may be term∣ed bruit beasts of the wilderness, who by Irregular Licenciousness would destroy the well ordered and cultivated Proprieties of all civilized People.
Now, the Author of this small and com∣pendious Treatise, was moved to write and publish the same, to satisfie (if it may be) both the one and the other by candid and concluding Reason.
WILL. BALL.OBSERVATIONS Upon a Book intituled, The Grounds of Obedience and Go∣vernment, Printed 1655.OBSERVATION 1.Vpon the sixt Ground, Touching Right, or Due.
I Have perused a Book intituled, The Grounds of Obedience, and Government, written by Thomas White Gentleman; wherein self-end or interest is greatly implyed, and though the Author seem to dislike blind obedience, yet he endea∣voureth to enslave free men under the Bondage of Boundless Government, or rather Governors. I shall instance and insist upon the Positions of the sixt Ground, not the first, but the fittest to begin withall.
The words are these: We ought therefore to know, that a man, considered in pure nature, looks on all other things, men, and beasts, and insensible creatures, as hissubjects to work on; his onely Rule being Reason, which takes nothing to be good, but what is good to himself.
I will examine this Position, first according to the Rule of the Creator, and then according to the Rule of the Creature: All School-men agree, that GOD worket