A sermon preached at St. Pauls March 27. 1640 Being the anniversary of his Majesties happy inauguration to his crowne. By Henry King, Deane of Rochester, and residentiary of St. Pauls: one of his Maiesties chaplaines in ordinary


A SERMON PREACHED At St. PAVLS March 27. 1640.
BEING THE ANNIVERSARY OF HIS MAIESTIES HAPPY INAUGURATION TO HIS CROWNE.
By HENRY KING, Deane of Rochester, and Residentiary of St. Pauls: One of His Majesties Chaplaines in Ordinary.
 [illustration]  [printer's or publisher's device] 
LONDON, Printed by Edward Griffin. 1640.
 [illustration] יהוהJEREM. 1.10.Behold I have this day set thee over the Nations, and over the King∣domes; to Root out, and to pull down, to destroy and throw down, to build and to plant.DId not the solemne com∣ming up of your Tribes to this Place, and the publike preparation loudly speake that Festivall we meet to celebrate; the very reading of this Text, were Trumpet enough to proclaime the cause of your addresse and my appearing here.
I may begin my Sermon as David his Psalme: I speake of the things which I have made touching the King: and the Hodiè in the Text applies my speech to the season. That God who This Day set

Him over us warrants the occasion, and this Scripture gives me matter.
The words were spoken immediately to the Prophet Jeremy, a Sonne of Oyle by his Office, though not of him but improperly and figuratively. Quod dici∣tur Jeremiae, Eccè constitui Te, non dubium quin figurata tota locutio sit, saith •aint Augustin. Jeremy then was the Messen∣ger, not the Party, for which reason one Translation reads not Constitui, but Le∣gavi Te. Literally and Properly, they are meant of Christ, importing his Regall Power, and the Latitude of His Kingdome▪ Non ergo Ieremias,sed Dominus Iesus. Not Ieremy, but the Lord Iesus, sa•th •t. Ambrose. Nor is He alone, St. Cyprian, St. Chrysostome, Victorinus and o•hers agree with him. Wh•ch makes good St. Hieromes attestation, Multi hunc locum sup•r Persona Christi intelligunt: Divers understand this Text of Christs Person. Neverthelesse, as we d•aw Coppies with∣out wrong to the Originall, so without injury to the sense of the Text, or the
Person of Christ; I shall apply the words to the King, who in respect of his Office and Domination upon Earth is Christs Image and Deputy; the Christus Domini, the Lords Annoynted.
First therefore,I shall from hence trace this Soveraigne Power to the very Spring, discovering unto you the Author whose Ordinance Dominion is, who is God Himselfe; Ego Constitui, I have set, or I have Constituted.
Secondly, the Person Exalted, Thee.
Thirdly, the Extent of this Exalta∣tion, Over the Nations,and over the King∣domes.
Fourthly, the End or Exercise of His Power, which is twofold:
1. Destructive, to Roote out, and to pull downe, to Destroy & to throw down.2. Conservative, To Build, and to Plant.
The Ecce here prefixt shall serve as an Herald to usher in my Discourse and Application.
Behold. And sure an Argument where∣in

God and the