The abridgement of the English Chronicle, first collected by M. Iohn Stow, and after him augmented with very many memorable antiquities, and continued with matters forreine and domesticall, vnto the beginning of the yeare, 1618. by E.H. Gentleman. There is a briefe table at the end of the booke


THE Abridgement of the English Chronicle, First collected by M. Iohn Stow, and after him augmented with very many memorable Anti∣quities, and continued with matters forreine and dome∣sticall, vnto the beginning of the yeare, 1618.
By E.H. Gentleman. There is a briefe Table at the end of the Booke.
Imprinted at London for the Com∣pany of Stationers, 1618.
Dextera Domini me exalt abit.
To the Right Honorable Sir George Bolles Knight, Lord Maior of the Citie of London, and to the Right worshipfull the Aldermen his brethren: And to Sir Anthony Benn Knight, Re∣corder of the same Citie. Edmond Howes, Gentleman, wisheth all health and felicitie.RIght Honourable and graue Senators, the bles∣sed and peaceful entrance into this land, and ioyfull possession of our Leige Lord, of his immediate right of the Imperiall crowne of England, and the vtter banishment of all doubt in the Regall succession, with the vniuersall hearts applause of all his Highnesse English subiects, who with one consent acknowledged their loue and dutie vnto his lawfull right in Soueraigntie, all which in the speedy effecting and establishing of peace in this kingdome was much more then either our neigh∣bour Nations held possible to bee so easily perfor∣med,

A appeared by their great admiration vp∣on the certaine knowledge thereof, or was right∣ly vnderstood of the multitude that wholly en∣ioyes the benefite, as too plainely appeareth by their wilful ingratitude & forgetfulnes, seeing their long continued feare so quickely supprest, and be∣yond all expectation conuerted into as great free∣dome and tranquilitie, as either their hearts could wish, or is enioyed by any other nation. All these, and many other high blessings of Almightie God still succeeded one another, & no man would once hold vp his finger to make present acknowledge∣ment or publicke vnderstanding vnto posterities, of the boundlesse and wondrous workes of God in these our daies, as also of the manifold remark∣able accidents which haue happened of late yeares.
These motiues, I say, with the earnest perswasi∣ons of diuers graue and honourable personages, who neuer ceased to accite mee vnto this present Act of Chronologie, haue directly caused mee to performe this generall businesse, in which my te∣dious labours I haue been intollerably abused and scandalized by Thraso, Momus, Zoylus, and other backebiters, & detractors: concerning whom, sith it is the least of offences to offend offenders, I will nei∣ther vexe my selfe, nor trouble your patience in seeking to please the enuious and insatiate. But forasmuch as I highly prize the good content of the honest, wise, and vertuous, thus was the course and manner of my proceeding herein.
A