A discourse concerning the doctrine of Christ's satisfaction; or The true reasons of His sufferings with an answer to the Socinian objections. To which is added a sermon concerning the mysteries of the Christian faith; preached April 7. 1691. With a preface concerning the true state of the controversie about Christ's satisfaction. By the right reverend Father in God, Edward Lord Bishop of Worcester.


A DISCOURSE Concerning the DOCTRINE OF Christ's Satisfaction; OR, The True Reasons of his Sufferings; WITH An ANSWER TO THE SOCINIAN OBJECTIONS.
To which is added A Sermon concerning the Mysteries of the Christian Faith; Preached April 7. 1691.
With a Preface concerning the True State of the Controversie about Christ's Satisfaction.
By the Right Reverend Father in GOD, EDWARD Lord Bishop of Worcester.
The Second Edition.
LONDON, Printed by I. Heptinstall, for Henry Mortlock at the Phoenix in St. Paul's Church-Yard, 1697.
THE PREFACE.THE Design of the following Dis∣course, is to vindicate the Do∣ctrine of Christ's Satisfaction from the Socinian Objections. Which, that I might do more effectually, I set my self to consider the Force and Strength of all that Crellius had produ∣ced in his elaborate Answer to Grotius. For I have always endeavoured to under∣stand the right state of a Question, before I undertook it; and when I had done that, I have taken as much Care, as I could, to represent it truly to others. Which made me not a little surprized, when I found our modern Socinians in their late Pam∣phlets to charge Me as well as others, with not reading their Books upon this Questi∣on, and wholly mistaking the State of the Question between the Church and them. Whereas, if I had not read their Books

I might peradventure have entertained a more favourable Opinion of them, than I now have. But it was upon a diligent Consideration of the utmost I could find was said by their best Writers, that I so long since satisfied my self, that if the Books of the New Testament are to be our Rule of Faith, they were extreamly mistaken. In∣deed, our Unitarians (as they call them∣selves) seem to go another way to work; which is, by undermining the Authority of these Books, and so to introduce Deism a∣mong us; (of which I hope to give an Ac∣count in another Discourse.) But my pre∣sent business is to lay open the true state of this Controversie between us. In their Answer to my Sermon (which is here Re∣printed) they say,That the Unitarians never denied, as I fancy, that Jesus Christ made himself a voluntary Sacri∣fice for Expiation of the Sins of Man∣kind. If this be true, I confess, I have mistaken them; but if the contrary prove very true from their own Writings, what do these Men deserve, for denying that which they know to be true? For it is hardly possible to suppose such bold Vnder∣takers, as they are, should be ignorant that Socinus absolutely denied, That Christ made himself a voluntary Sacrifice for

Expiation of the Sins of Mankind. For in his Answer to Volanus,