The second part and knitting vp of the boke entituled Too good to be true Wherin is continued the discourse of the wonderfull lawes, commendable customes, [and] strange manners of the people of Mauqsun. Newely penned and published by Thomas Lupton.


 [illustration] 
Imprinted at London by Abel Ieffs,
dwelling in the forestrete without Crepelgate,
at the signe of the Bell.
Anno. 1587.
 [illustration] The Second part and
Knitting vp of the Boke
entituled Too good to be true.Wherin is continued the discourse
of the wonderfull Lawes, com∣mendable
customes, & strange
manners of the people
of Mauqsun.Newely penned and published, by
THOMAS LVPTON.AT LONDON:
Printed by Henry Binneman.
ANNO DOMINI. 1581.
Cum Priuilegio.Septembris 6.
 [illustration] 
TO THE RIGHT HO∣NORABLE,
SIR VVILLIAM
CICILL, OF THE NOBLE ORDER OF
THE GARTER KNIGHT, BARON OF
Burghley, Lord high Treasurer of Englande, and one of hir
Maiesties most honorable priuie Counsell.AS THE first Styrpe whereof we did
spring (Right Honorable) was be∣witched
by that wily & wicked ser∣pent:
Euen so the same wicked ser∣pent
hath neuer since ceased, to en∣chaunt
and bewitch hir posteritie,
knowing them to be hir deare dar∣lings,
and sweete mouthed like their
mother. For who is it that feedeth
not where fancie doth fauour? And
what fauoureth fancie, but sweete
pleasaunt poyson? That flattering
feend, was the first founder of our
fond affection, and entised EVE did
spinne the threede of our thraldom:
but ADAM (alas) did weaue vp this
wofull web. And hath not his pieuish posteritie delited euer since to prowle
for their pleasure, though it worke their owne woe: yea beside wicked praise
and priuate profit to the hurt of other. And to make it more manifest, what
thing hath bene done from the beginning, or is now dailie practised (ex∣cept
of a few) but only for selfe pleasure, wicked praise, or priuat profit? Ex∣amples
hereof are as rare to be founde, as to espie one winke that sleepeth,
nothing almost hath else bene esteemed, & what else at this time of vs is em∣braced?
But if we will not wilfullie winke, but willinglie see, the publike
paine such pleasures haue preferred, the perilous practises such praise hath
permitted, & the pitifull penurie such profit hath procured: that it will make
vs loath that so many hath loued, cause vs detest that so many haue desired,
& feare vs to fauor that thousands haue followed. LVCIFER the ringleader
of this daunce practising for his pleasure to be higher than God did appoint
him, brought him selfe and many thousands of Angells to endles sorrowes:

EVES pleasure in the forbodden apple, wrought the greatest displeasure to
man that could be: DAVIDS pleasure in the beautie of a woman cost V∣RIAS
his life: the pleasure of HOLOFERNES in IVDITH, was the losse
of his head, and the spoile of his armie: many a giltlesse child was murthe∣red
for the pleasure of HEROD: the pleasure that ACHAE had in a litle
vineyard, caused NABOTH be killed: NEROES vile pleasure, made his
mother b