The discoveries of John Lederer in three several marches from Virginia to the west of Carolina and other parts of the continent begun in March, 1669 and ended in September, 1670 : together with a general map of the whole territory which he traversed / collected and translated out of Latine from his discourse and writings, by Sir William Talbot, Baronet.


Licensed, Nov. 1. 1671. ROGER L'ESTRANGE.
THE DISCOVERIES OF JOHN LEDERER, In three several Marches from VIRGINIA, To the West of Carolina, And other parts of the Continent: Begun in March 1669, and ended in September 1670.
Together with A General MAP of the whole Territory which he traversed.
Collected and Translated out of Latine from his Discourse and Writings, By Sir William Talbot Baronet.
Sed nos immensum spatiis confecimus aequor,
Et jam tempus equum fumantia solvere colla.
Virg. Georg.London, Printed by J. C. for Samuel Heyrick, at Grays-Inne-gate in Holborn. 1672.
To the Right Honourable ANTHONY Lord ASHLEY, Baron Ashley of Wimborn St. Giles, Chancellor of his Majesties Exchequer, Ʋnder-Treasurer of England, One of the Lords Commissioners of his Ma∣jesties Treasury, one of the Lords of his most Honourable Privie Council, and one of the Lords Proprie∣tors of CAROLINA.My LORD,FRom this discourse it is clear that the long looked-for discovery of the Indian Sea does nearly approach; and Carolina, out of her happy experience of your Lord∣ships success in great undertakings, presumes that the accomplishment of this glorious Designe is reserved for her. In order to which, the Apalataean Mountains (though like the prodigious Wall that divides Chi∣naand Tartary, they deny Virginia passage into the West Continent) stoop to your Lordships Dominions, and lay open a Pro∣spect into unlimited Empires; Empires that will hereafter be ambitious of subjection to that noble Government which by your Lordships deep wisdom and providence first projected, is now established in Caroli∣na; for it will appear that she flourishes more by the influence of that, than the ad∣vantages she derives from her Climate and Soyl, which yet do render her the Beauty and Envy of North-America. That all her glories should be seen in this Draught, is not reasonably to be expected, since she sate to my Author but once, and then too with a side-face; and therefore I must own it was never by him designed for the Press, but published by me, out of no other ambition than that of manifesting to the world, that I am,
My Lord,Your Lordships most humble and obedient Servant, William Talbot.TO THE READER.THat a Stranger should presume (though with Sir William Berk∣ly's Commission) to go into those Parts of the American Continent where Englishmen never had been, and whi∣ther some refused to accompany him, was, in Virginia look'd on as so great an insolence, that our Traveller at his Return, instead of Welcom and Applause, met nothing but Af∣fronts and Reproaches; for indeed it was their part, that forsook him in the Expedi∣tion, to procure