Psyche a tragedy / written by Tho. Shadwell.



PSYCHE: A TRAGEDY, Acted at the Duke's Theatre. Written by THO. SHADWELL.
LONDON, Printed by T. N. for Henry Herringman, at the Anchor in the lower Walk of the New Exchange. 1675.
To the most Illustrious Prince, JAMES Duke of MONMOUTH, &c.May it please Your Grace,YOur Grace has so Nobly Patronized this Undertaking, that I should rob you of your due, if I should not hum∣bly lay this Play at your feet, since by your great and generous encou∣ragement of it, you have made that and the Author eternally your own. But had I never received any Obligation, by my particular Inclination I am bound to your Grace, since I am the most humble admirer of your Heroick Vertues, who by your early

and unimitable Example, and by your eminent Com∣mand, are the greatest Patron of Arms; and by your Government of the most famous of Universities, are become the greatest Protector of Arts: of that Uni∣versity, which I can never mention without reverence; and from which I have yet another Tie to your Grace, since I had once the honour to be a Member of that Illustrious Society, which though it be the most Learn∣ed in the World, can boast of no greater Honour then that of being commanded by so Excellent a Prince; one who is equally Valiant against his Enemies, and Courteous to his Friends; whose boundless Courage is always ready to vanquish the one, and whose Prince∣ly Generosity is always ready to oblige the other.
I shall not here recite those Heroick Actions, which all Europe have celebrated, and none have equall'd: Those are too Great for an Epistle Dedicatory, and onely fit for solid, lasting History; which certainly must do your Grace that right, to Enrol you in the fore∣most Rank of Fame. Nor can we doubt, but the me∣mory of your Grace's Actions will last, when Time shall have devoured the Places where they were per∣formed: When Mastrick shall be a heap of Rubbish, and the name might otherwise be swallow'd in the Ruine, it will be remembred by the greatest Action in the World, done there by the Greatest and the Earliest Hero, and by one, who for all his fierceness of Courage, has yet that Gentleness to Mankind, that he thinks that day lost, in which he does not oblige. One who is not onely infinitely bless'd in the most excellent Partner

of his Joys and Cares, happy above measure in the Goods of Mind, the Perfections of Body, and the greatest Splendour and Ornaments of Fortune, but he enjoys all these unenvied; nay, is not onely free from every mans envy, but has his love.
I should be afraid of this boldness, in once mention∣ing things so much above my Pen, were I not assured of your Grace's Generosity, that enclines you to par∣don, even a well-intended Errour, in your humble Creature, who begs Protection from you, and needs it too.
I have, by my misfortune, not my fault, met with some Enemies, who are always ready to do me the ir∣reparable injury, to blast my Reputation with the King; and when I have the Honour to ple