Sermons on several occasions: in four volumes. / By John Wesley, M.A. late fellow of Lincoln-College, Oxford. ; Vol. I[-IV].


SERMONS ON Several Occasions: IN FOUR VOLUMES.
BY JOHN WESLEY, M. A. Late Fellow of Lincoln-College, OXFORD.
VOL. I.
PHILADELPHIA: PRINTED BY J. CRUKSHANK, AND SOLD BY JOHN DICKINS, NO. 118, NORTH FOURTH-STREET.
M,DCC,XCIV.
ADVERTISEMENT.AS the present state of our funds will not conveniently admit of our publishing at once, the four volumes of these admirable Sermons, we have judged it most prudent to furnish the purchasers with one or two volumes at a time; assuring them that we intend not to stop, till we have presented them with the whole set.
Philadelphia,Jan. 1, 1794.THE PREFACE.THE following Sermons contain the sub∣stance of what I have been preaching, for between eight and nine years last past▪ During that time I have frequently spoken in publick, on every subject in the ensuing collection: And I am not conscious, that there is any one point of doctrine, on which I am accustomed to speak in public, which is not here, incidentally, if not professedly laid before every Christian Reader. Every serious man, who peruses these will there∣fore see in the clearest manner, what those doctrines are which I embrace and 〈…〉 the essentials of true religion.

2. But I am thoroughly sensible, these are not proposed, in such a manner as some may expect. Nothing here appears in an elaborate, elegant, or oratorical dress. If it had been my desire or design to write thus, my leisure would not permit. But in truth I at present designed nothing less; for I now write (as I generally speak) ad populum: To the bulk of mankind, to those who nei∣ther relish nor understand the art of speak∣ing: But who notwithstanding are compe∣tent judges of those truths, which are neces∣sary to present and future happiness. I mention this, that curious readers may spare themselves the labour of seeking for what they will not find.
3. I design plain truth for plain people. Therefore of set purpose I abstain from all nice and philosophical speculations, from all perplext and intricate reasonings; and as far as possible, from even the shew of learn∣ing, unless in sometimes citing the original scriptures. I labour to avoid all words which are not easy to be understood, all which are not used in common life: •nd in particular, those kind of technical terms, that so frequently occur in bodies of divini∣ty, those modes of speaking which men 〈◊〉 reading are intimately acquainted with, but which to common people are an unknown
itongue. Yet I am not assured, that I do not sometimes slide into them unawares: It is so extremely natural to imagine, that a word which is familiar to ourselves, is so to all the world.
4. Nay, my design is, in some sense to forget all that ever I have read in my life. I mean to speak, in the general, as if I had never read one author, antient or modern (always excepting the inspired.) I am per∣suaded, that on the one hand, this may be a m