By the lords justices and councell. Jo. Borlase. Hen. Tichborne. Whereas we have lately seen a printed paper, intituled, a solemn League and Covenant for reformation and defence of religion the honour and happinesse of the king, and he peace and safety of the three kingdoms, of England, Scotland, and Ireland, which seems to have been printed at London, on the ninth day of October 1643. ...


 [illustration] DIEV ET MON DROITHONI SOIT QVI MAL Y PENSE [royal blazon or coat of arms] ¶ By the Lords Iustices and Councell.Jo. Borlase.Hen. Tichborne.VVHereas We have lately seen a Printed Paper, intitled, a solemn League and Covenant for reformation and defence of Religion, the Honour and happinesse of the King, and the Peace and safety of the three Kingdoms, of England, Scotland, and Ireland, which seems to have been Printed at London, on the ninth day of October 1643.
And forasmuch as in the said League or Covenant, there are divers things conteined not only tending to a seditious combina∣tion against His Majesty but alsoe contrary to the municipall Lawes of this Kingdome of Ireland, and destructive to the Church Government established by Law in this Kingdom, And for that by the Lawes of this Kingdom, no Oath ought to be tendred to, or taken by any person or persons whatsoever in this Kingdom, but before a Iudge or other person thereunto Lawfully Authorized by His Majesty, and for that the said League or Covenant, is now endeavoured to be set on foot in this Kingdom, without His Majesties Privity, Direction or Alowance. And in regard it is di∣rectly contrary to the Liberty and freedom of the Subject, to be by any such Oath or Covenant pre∣engaged, And for that the setting on foot at this time in this Kingdom the said League or Cove∣nant, without His Majesties Alowance, may not only beget much distraction and unquietnesse a∣mongst His Majesties good Subjects, but also may prove very penall to all those who shall pre∣sume to tender or take the same: We therfore for prevention of such mischiefs, doe in His Majesties name strictly charge and Command, all His Majesties good Subjects of what degree or quality soever, within this Kingdom upon their Allegiance to His Majesty, that they presume not to enter into or take the said League Covenant or Oath. And We doe hereby likewise inhibit and forbid all His Majesties Subjects in this Kingdom, to impose, administer, or tender the said League Oath or Covenant. And if notwithstanding this Our Proclamation, any person shall presume to impose tender or take the said League Oath or Covenant, We shall proceed against him or them with all severity according to the known Lawes of the Land.
Given at His Majesties Castle of Dublin,the 18. day of December, 1643.Ri. Bolton. Canc.La. Dublin.Ormonde.Roscomon.Edw. Brabazon.Ant. Midensis.Cha. Lambart.Geo. Shurley.Gerrard Lowther.Tho. Rotherham.Fr. Willoughby.Tho. Lucas.Ia. Ware.G. Wentworth.GOD SAƲE THE KING.Jmprinted at DUBLIN, by VVILLIAM BLADEN, Printer to the Kings most Exce