The excellency of moral vertue, from the serious exhortation of St. Paul to the practice of it in several discourses upon Phil. 4. 8. : to which is added, A discourse of sincerity, from John i. 47 / by Henry Hallywell ...


Imprimatur,
Geo. Royse, R. R. in Christo Patri ac Domino Domino Johanni Archiep. Cantuar. a Sacris Domest.
April 23d, 1692.THE EXCELLENCY OF Moral Vertue, FROM THE Serious Exhortation of St. Paul to the Practice of it.
In several Discourses upon Phil. 4.8.
To which is added, A Discourse of Sincerity, FROM JOHN i. 47.
By HENRY HALLYWELL, Vicar of Cowfold, in Sussex.
LONDON, Printed for Iames Adamson, at the Angel and Crown in St. Paul's Church-Yard, 1692.
To the most Reverend Father in God, JOHN, by the Divine Provi∣dence, Lord Archbi∣shop of Canterbury, Pri∣mate of all England and Metropolitan, and one of their Majesties most Honourable Privy-Council, &c.May it please your GraceTO accept of the fol∣lowing Discourses as a Testimony of my Humble Thankfulness for your Grace's Favours towards

me. The Substance of them was lately delivered to a small Country Auditory, into whose Minds I endeavoured to instill a Generous Sense of Virtue, being Convinced not only of the Great Ʋsefulness of such Monitory Exhortati∣ons in a Degenerate Age, but fully persuaded, that if Men Neglect the Sincere Practice of Virtue, the Re∣novation of their Minds in∣to the faultless Image of Je∣sus will never effectually be carried on. I most Humbly Beg your Grace's Pardon for their Imperfections, hoping your Grace will not be offend∣ed

at the Meanness of an Of∣fering which proceeds only from a Desire of doing Good. And to Assure your Grace of the Ʋprightness of my In∣tentions herein, I have add∣ed as an Appendix I judged not unsuitable to the foregoing Discourses, one likewise of Sincerity, in which your Grace will see the high E∣steem and Value I have of that Lovely Qualification.
Now that God would pre∣serve your Grace in Health and Prosperity for the Good and Benefit of this Church and Nation, and after you

have finished your Course, that your Grace may receive a never fading Crown of Glory when the chief Shep∣herd shall appear, is the hearty Prayer of
My Lord,Your Grace's most Humble, and most Affectionate, Servant, Henry Hallywell.Phil. 4.8.Finally Brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are honest, whatsoever things are just, whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are lovely, whatsoever things are of good report; if there be any Virtue, and if there be any Praise, think on these things.
THE true life and spi∣rit of Religion consists not in dry and barren Speculation, but in Practice: And that we may the better know what is the matter of our Practice, the Apostle here

instances in divers Moral Duties which frequently occur in the life of Man; and indeed seems to resolve all Religion into the seri∣ous and hearty Regulation of the Life and Actions according to the Rules and Measures of Virtue.
And because Morality by some hath