Pneumatologia: or, A treatise of the Holy Ghost. In which, the God-head of the third person of the Trinitie is strongly asserted by Scripture-arguments. And defended against the sophisticall subtleties of John Bidle. / By Mr. Nicolas Estwick, B.D. somtime fellow of Christ-Colledg in Cambridg, and now pastor of Warkton in the countie of Northampton.


〈 in non-Ltin lphbet 〉: OR, A TREATISE OF THE HOLY GHOST.
IN WHICH, The God-hed of the third Person of the Trinitie is strongly sserted by Scripture-Arguments.
And defended ginst the Sophisticll subtleties of JOHN BIDLE.
BY Mr. Nicols Estwick, B. D. somtime Fellow of Christ-Colledg in Cmbridg, nd now Pstor of Wrkton in the Countie of Northmpton.
LONDON, Printed by Willim Du-grd, for Rlph Smith, nd re to bee sold t the Sign of the Bible in Corn-hill, neer the Royl-Exchnge. 1648.
THE PREFACE.THe sublime Argument, touching the unitie of the God-hed, nd the Trinitie of the Persons, is of tht high concern∣ment, tht it obligeth Christins to ly themselvs out to the uttermost in the serch of the mens in the which it hth plesed the Lord to revel himself, tht wee might hve right pprehensions of him; prtly, becuse it is very dn∣gerous, nd ttended with sd consequences to hve erroneous conceptions in this to-bee-dored subject: nd prtly, becuse no subordinte truths cn bee more profitbly lerned, whether wee respect the in∣formtion of our judgments, the reformtion of our lives, or our sound consoltion in every condition.
In this licentious ge, wherein Heresies, with more boldness (the more is the pitie) re not onely privte∣ly vented, but printed, nd exposed to publick view, then in former ges, whereby mny unwry nd ungrounded Reders re infected with leprosie in
 their heds, nd their judgments re corrupted, s o∣ther wicked phncies, for wnt of humilitie, know∣ledg in Scripture, Arts nd Tongues, nd due respect to the word of God, nd the testimonie of ncient nd modern Divines, hve been broched, so hth the fundmentll Article touching the Deitie of the holy Ghost been questioned, ye plinly contrdicted.
Mny months pssed before I hd  sight of Mr. Bidle's bhorred lines, nor did I so much s desire to red them; but when I herd by the reltion of  very lerned mn, nd of much observtion touching these times, tht those twelve Resons did  gret del of hurt, I then used the mens to get  sight of the Book, nd I sw it ws Sophisticlly penned, nd plusi∣bly contrived to do much mischief; nd when I could not her tht ny of the lerned, which hve fr better bilities, more lesure, nd encourging ccommod∣tions then I hve, would spend their precious time in convincing this Adversrie of God, I resolved, by the grce of the Spirit of God, to vindicte wht lie's in mee his honor, in shewing prtly the wekness, prtly the blsphemie of his twelve Resons, to shew him, if it my bee, the dnger of his Heresie, nd to cler the l∣ledged Scriptures from his Sophistrie, nd to hold forth tht little light which the blessed Spirit hth freely imprted to mee, to the bette