[Come out of her my people] or an ansvver to the questions of a gentlevvoman (a professour in the Antichristian Church of England) about hearing the publicke ministers vvhere it is largely discussed and proved to be sinfull and unlavvfull. Also a iust apologie for the way of total separation (commonly but falsely called Brownisme) that it is the truth of God, though lightly esteemed in the eyes of the blinde world. With a challenge to dispute with them publickly before King & Counsell: to prove whatsoever I said at the pillery against them. Viz. that the calling of them all is jure diabolo: even from the divell himselfe. By mee John Lilburne. Close prisoner in the Fleete for the cause of Christ.


〈…〉 OR An Ansvver to the questions of a Gentlevvoman (a pro∣fessour in the Antichristian Church of England) about Hearing the Publicke Ministers: vvhere it is largely discussed and proved to be sinfull and vnlavvfull.
ALSO A Iust Apologie for the way of Totall Separation (Commonly but falsly called Brownisme) That it is the truth of God, though lightly esteemed in the eyes of the blinde world.
With A Challenge to Dispute with them publickly before King & Counsell: to prove whatsoever J said at the Pillery against them. Viz. That the Calling of them all is Jure Diabolo: Even from the Divell himselfe.
By mee JOHN LILBURNE. Close Prisoner in the Fleete for the Cause of Christ.
IOHN 10. Ver. 27.5.
My Sheepe heare my voyce. For they know not the voyce of strangers.Printed in the yeare of hope, of ENGLANDS purgation, & the Prelates dissolution. ANNO 1639.
The Publisher to the Reader.COVRTEOVS READER:IT pleaseth the Lord in this latter age of the world to giue vs sundry helpes, whereby the man of sinne, (with all that bloodie Crew) is more and more discovered: and Gods elect lead (as it were) by the hand out of Babylon.
Jf any therefore (shutting their eyes against the light) remaine not∣withstanding vnder the yoake of Antichrist: they must make account to feele for it, the sorer and heavier wrath of God.
Touching this Treatise what it is, I shall leave it to thy triall and censure, and as thou findest profitt by the reading thereof, so blesse God for it, and be ready to communicate the good which thou receivest, vnto the profitt of others. Farewell and pray for mee.
Who is thy truely loving friend and Countrie-man.Alvvayes give prayse to God, and let him have the glory of all.KInd and Loving Christian Freind; J kindly salute you in our Lord and Saviour Iesus Christ, Beseeching him, that his enlightning spirit, the Spirit of Truth, may both now and ever be with you, and remaine with you, and all those that desire to serve and wor∣ship God, in all his commandements, according to his revealed will, & not according to mens precepts and devices, which is odious and abominable to him; Math. 15.9. Col. 2. Gal. 4.9.10. Esay. 66.3.
But now to give an answer to that which you desire, J say, and that in the words of truth, that the thing, as it is to me expressed, is ve