wished to call the attention of the House to a Petition of which he had given notice, and which he conceived to be well deserving of their Lordships' serious consideration.
It was a Petition from the Physicians practising in London under the title of Licentiates.
As he should move, that the Petition be read at length, he should only state in general that it complained of the bye laws of the College of Physicians, which excluded Licentiates from their share in the government of the College, in the emoluments of it, and in the privileges attached to it, and prayed for a general inquiry into, and remedy of, the existing bad state of the law relating to the medical profession.
He had also a Petition from the practising Surgeons and Apothecaries of the Metropolis on a similar subject, which he should present on a future occasion.
The Petition he now held in his hand was signed by seventy-six Licentiate Physicians, being more than one-half of those who practised in London.
In the College-list of 1832, there were 126 Fellows of the College and 272 Licentiates.
Of those, sixty-five Fellows and 138 Licentiates were in London.
These together made up a number of 203, and out of that number 180 only practised in London and within seven miles round it, in which the population amounted to 1, 500, 000 persons.
With a view of forming some opinion on the subject, it would be curious to know the proportion of Physicians in Berlin and Paris, as compared to the population of those cities, and then to see whether the opinion was borne out, that the effect of the bye laws of the College of Physicians was to prevent London from enjoying a sufficient supply of medical men of the first rank and class.
The propositions were these:—
In Berlin, where there was a population of 249, 000, there were 228 Physicians.
In Paris, where the population amounted to 935, 000, there were 925 Physicians; while, in London, where the population was 1, 500, 000, there were only 180 practising Physicians.
Again, in Berlin there were 174 surgeons and apothecaries; in Paris there were 159; and in London 2, 000.
It was not now a question whether there were too many surgeons and apothecaries, but whether the demand of the people for medical aid of the first order was fully complied with, and whether the bye laws of the College of Phy- sicians did not compel the people to have recourse to an inferior grade of practitioners.
There were throughout the rest of the country 150 Physicians who were members of the College; and twenty-five Licentiates for the whole of England and Wales.
The complaints against the laws now regulating the medical profession were, that no person could practise in London unless he had passed an examination at the College, and that no person could pass an examination there unless he had graduated at Oxford or Cambridge, where the medical schools were of an inferior kind; that the College did not possess the power of protecting those whom it licensed, for that its Statutes wer