The mechanick's address to the farmer: being a short reply to some of the layman's Remarks on the eighteen Presbyterian ministers letter to the arch-bishop.


THE MECHANICK'S ADDRESS TO THE FARMER: Being a short REPLY to some of the LAYMAN'S Remarks on the Eighteen Presbyterian Ministers Letter to the Arch-bishop.
PHILADELPHIA: Printed by ANDREW STEUART, at the Bible-in-Heart, in Second-street. 1761.
THE Mechanick's ADDRESS, &c.SIR,HAVING perused your wonder∣ful Remarks on the Eighteen Presbyterian Ministers Letter 〈◊〉 the Archbishop, and therewith your Declaration of your Zeal for the Cause of the LORD, and your Desire to open the Eyes of your Fellow-Christians; it kindled in me a Desire of Access to you, in Order to my clearer Instruction: As I may ven∣ture to say, I have nothing more at Heart, than to be truly enlightened in the Path of Duty. But as you are pleased to conceal yourself under the general Characters of Lay-Man and Farmer, of which we have vast Numbers; I could devise no other Method to obtain my Desire, than by send∣ing out this Address among the Farmers, hoping thereby, to find out the famous Farmer: For it is a Pity that so famous a Talent as his, should be hid; or that such a Candle should be put under a Bushel.
As several strange Things are presented to me, dispersed here and there, through your none-such Performance, and I intend to be very brief; I shall set a few of those Mysteries in one View.
To begin then with your wonderful Ar∣guments gathered from the aforesaid Letter, you observe;
First, That the A—hb—p is a Prelate of the Church of England; therefore he cannot be supposed to have any Grace.
Second, The Eighteen Presbyterian Mi∣nisters allow the A—hb—p to have Grace, and the Church of England to be Christian; therefore they are secret Enemies to Presby∣terians.
Third, The A—hb—p denies a Parity of Gospel-Ministers, and holds Episcopal Ordination to be Apostolical, &c. there∣fore he can be no Friend at all to Truth.
Fourth, These Eighteen Ministers say, they were providencially convened at Phila∣delphia; therefore they insinuate to the A—hb—p, that the Subscribing said Let∣ter, was a Synodical Act.
Fifth, These Men signed that Letter; therefore they presumed to sap the very •oundation of Presbyterian Discipline.
Sixth, They say, a very remarkable Bles∣sing attended Mr. MecClanachan's Ministry; therefore they bring a hard Charge against Presbyterianism in general.
Seventh, They assure the A—hb—p, that they will not be accountable for any Man's Prudentials in every Part of his Con∣duct; therefore they insinuate, that they think themselves qualified to be Bondsmen for other Peoples Goodness.
Eighth, They tell the A—hb—p, there are Fundamental Doctrines of the Christian Religion and Protestant Reformation pro∣fessed by the Church of England, in which they can agree with that Church; therefore they are Church-Betrayers.
Ninth, They say, the A—hb—p pre∣sides over the English Church; therefore they are hypocritical double-de