The Kings Maiesties most gratious speech to both houses of Parliament on Thurseday the second of December. 1641.:  Whereunto is added the King and Queenes royall loves returned to the worthy members of the honorable City of London. Or a royall invitation from both their Majesties, for the lord major and court of aldermen to feast with them at their Highnesse palace of Hampton Court. Which was performed on Friday the third of December 1641. with the manner of knighting of five of the aldermen there, and the two shriffes of London.


THE KINGS MAIESTIES MOST GRATIOVS SPEECH to both houses of Parlia∣ment on Thurseday the second of December. 1641.
Whereunto is added the King and Queenes Royall loves returned to the worthy members of the ho∣norable City of London.
Or a Royall Invitation from both their Majesties, for the Lord Major and Court of Al∣dermen to feast with them at their High∣nesse Palace of Hampton Court.
Which was performed on Friday the third of December 1641. with the manner of Knighting of Five of the Aldermen there, and the two Shriffes of LONDON.
London, Printed for Iohn Thomas. 1641.
HIS MAIESTIES Speech to both Houses of Parliament the second of December. 1641.My Lords And Gentlemen.I Am to Speake a word unto you, since I have beene so long absent from you, it is in no way in an∣swer to the learned speech of Maister Speaker; but yet I shall touch one point of it concerning Ireland, but first I must tell you, though I have beene absent lon∣ger then indeede I did expect, or could have been expected by you; yet I stayed no longer in Scot∣land, then the necessity of those affaires would ab∣solutely permit, and indeed I have done therein so much good, that I dare boldly affirme unto you, I have left the people a most contented and happie nation: so that if I did misreckon in the time, I did not misreckon in the end.
Now though I have deceived you a littl of

your expectation in point of time I confesse, you have deceived my expectation in finding of busi∣nesse here, for I had thought to have found thinges in quietnesse, and setled both for Religi∣on, and peace, of this Kingdome, but I found great distractions, in so much as the Parliament was thought fit to be guarded, this I speake not any way to seeke out a fault, or to have any di∣strust of the harty affections of my Subjects, but but on the contrary when I came here (as you all see) I found the affection of my people to mee with great comfort.
Now I assure you I come with the same affecti∣on that you, or any good people of the world can wish, for I am far from disliking any thing I have done hitherto, that if it were to be done againe even in the favour and good of my people, that I protest, I would do it again, and whatsoever may be justly expected of mee for securing of religi∣on, and liberty of my people, I shall not faile to doe it.
And therefore I shall mention no particular at this time, but only the great particular of Ireland, which Master Speaker did mention of, which I doe