The case of clandestine marriages stated wherein are shewn the causes from whence this corruption ariseth, and the true methods whereby it may be remedy'd : in a letter to a person of honour.


THE
CASE
OF
Clandestine Marriages
STATED,
WHEREIN
Are shown the CAUSES from whence this Cor∣ruption
ariseth, and the true METHODS
whereby it may be remedy'd.
IN A
LETTER
TO
A Person of Honour.
London, printed in the Year, 1691.
THE
CASE
OF
Clandestine Marriages Stated, &c.BY the Sixty Second Canon of King James the First,
as well as by the Constitutions of John Stratford,
Archbishop of Canterbury, in the Reign of King
Edward the Third, it is ordained, That no Per∣sons
shall be married, but in the Parishes where
one of the Parties dwell. And in the Hundred and second
Canon it is further provided, That when a License is granted,
the Person that grants it shall take good Caution and Se∣curity,
as for other things in the Canon mentioned, so
lastly for this, That they shall celebrate the Marriage pub∣lickly
in the Parish-Church or Chappel where one of them
dwelleth, and in no other place, and that between the Hours
of Eight and Twelve in the Morning.
Most Clandestine Marriages that have happened, have
proceeded from the Breach of these Canons. For were
they punctually observed, and all Marriages solemniz'd on∣ly
in the Parish Church or Chappel where one of the Par∣ties
dwell, and no where else, no Clandestine Design this
way could be carried so closely, but that the Friends must
know of it: at least a stop must be put thereto when it
comes to the Minister. For when a Minister celebrates a
Marriage that is Clandestine, he doth it either out of igno∣rance,
or ill Design. As to the Ignorance of the Minister,

in this particular (and many Clandestine Marriages proceed
only from their being imposed on this way) the Me∣thod
prescribed by the Canon must be a very effectual way,
because when all are married in their own Parishes, the
Ministers cannot be supposed to be ignorant whether they
have Consent of Friends, or no, (unless perchance in some
of the larger Parishes in London, where other Care may be
taken by requiring the Friends of both Parties to be actual∣ly
present) and therefore though a License should be frau∣dulently
obtained, yet if directed to him, it can be of no
Effect, because all Licenses go with a Proviso of Nullity,
in Case of Fraud; and therefore to him that knows the
Fraud (as it is scarce possible but every Minister must in his
own Parish) it can be no Licence at all, but he will be as
much liable to the Penalty of the Law, if he marries with
a License in this Case, as if he had no License at all. And
as to a Minister's being Party to the ill Design of a Clan∣destine
Marriage, you shall scarce ever find this to happen,
when People are married by their own Minister. For the
Penalty being Suspension per Triennium, none that have Be∣nefices
which are worth any thing, and are sensible of the
Fraud (as all Ministers must be in the Parishes where they
l