Reliquiae Turellae, et lachrymae paternae. The father's tears over his daughter's remains. Two sermons preach'd at Medford, April 6. 1735. / By Benjamin Colman, D.D. ; The Lord's Day after the funeral of his beloved daughter Mrs. Jane Turell. ; To which are added, some large memoirs of her life and death, by her consort, the Reverend Mr. Ebenezer Turell, M.A. Pastor of the church in Medford. ; [Four lines from Psalms]


Reliquiae Turellae, et Lachrymae Paternae. The Father's Tears over his Daughter's Remains.
Two SERMONS Preach'd at Medford, April 6. 1735. By Benjamin Colman, D.D. The Lord's Day after the Funeral Of His beloved Daughter Mrs. Jane Turell. To which are added, Some large MEMOIRS of her Life and Death, By her Consort, the Reverend Mr. Ebenezer Turell, M. A. Pastor of the Church in Medford.
Proverbs xxxi 26.She openeth her Mouth with Wisdom, and in her Tongue is the Law of Kindness. Ver. 31. Give her of the Fruit of her Hands, and let her own Works praise Her in the Gates.
BOSTON: Printed by S. KNEELAND & T. GREEN, for J. EDWARDS and H. FOSTER in Cornhill. 1735.
TO THE READER.THE following Sermons, plain and simple as they are, for Mourning forbids Or|nament, had been publish'd sooner, if at all, after the Funeral of my dear Child, if the putting in Order some Memoirs of her short Exemplary Life had not obliged us to some Delay.
I hope both the Sermons and the Memoirs may be of good Use to Parents and Children, and to Ministers and their Children in particular, or I should not trouble the Public with them.
As the Father of the Deceased I owe this Respect unto her Memory, but more as a Minister I owe it to the Children of my Country and of the Town. It becomes Me now in Age to write for Those un|to Whom I have been ministring these five and thirty Years; and I magnify my Office (to bor|row the Words of the Great Apostle) if I may
i
provoke to Emulation those that are my Flesh. I mean, If what is here publish'd may serve to put Parents on more early and continued Endeavours for the Souls of their Children, and to inspire our Dau'ters in particular with Desires to improve in Knowlege and Goodness under the Instructions of their wise and gracious Parents. This, by the Will of God, ought to be to me a Joy next to any Saving Ministrations to my own Offspring, whereof the following Record gives me some humble Hope: Scil. That it has pleased God to make Me, together with my good Son Mr. Turell, a Spiritual Father to my lov'd Child, and that in Christ Jesus we have begotten her thro' the Gospel; (again to use the Apostle's most pleasant Words) — At least the Reader will charitably judge that I have with some Pains and Throws been travailing in Birth till Christ was formed in her. In which I be|seech Others to be Followers of me, who yet am not worthy to be named among the Ministers of Christ.
For I have at last very poorly answered that first and great Commandment of God to all his People, Deut. vi. 4,—7. "Hear, O Israel, The Lord our God is o