Michaels combat with the diuel: or, Moses his funerall Delivered in a sermon preached in St. Pauls Church, on Sunday morning, being the Feast of St. Michael, 1639. By Iohn Blenkovv, LL.B. sometime Fellow of S. Iohn Bap. Coll. in Oxford.


MICHAELS COMBAT WITH THE DIVEL: OR, MOSES his FUNERALL. Delivered in a Sermon Preached in St PAULS Church, on Sunday Morning, being the Feast of St Michael, 1639. By IOHN BLENKOVV, LL. B. sometime Fellow of S. Iohn Bap. Coll. in OXFORD.
Bernard. in Epist. Dom. 2. Serm.Quantò sublimitas notior, tantò humilitas pretiosior.
Resist the Divel, and he will flie from thee.
Iam. 4.7.
LONDON, Printed by Thomas Harper. 1640.
To the Right VVorshipfull, Sir HENRY MARTIN Knight, Iudge of his Majesties Court of Admiralty, and the Prerogative Court of Canterbury.Right Worshipfull,MAY it please you to take into your hand, that, which not long since you receyved into your eare, with undeserved attention and favourable censure: (the which only, next your
 private favours, encouraged mee to fixe your Name.) And to let it shrowde under your Protection, which otherwise would bee loath to walke at all abroad. It desires to baulke the common eye, as too un∣worthy an object; onely content to visit private friends: some, I pre∣sume it may find; your Name may make it many: your selfe is instar omnium. If you please to accept it, as first or chiefe, it shall embolden the Authour to subscribe himselfe
The meanest of your obliged IOHN BLENKOVV.Epistle of Saint Iude, verse 9.Yet Michael the Archangel, when contending with the Divel, he disputed about the body of Moses, durst not bring a rayling accusati∣on against him, but sayd, The Lord rebuke thee.
NOW I have read my Text, let mee call upon you to heare the word of God. For these words, eyther through the ignorance or peevishnesse of some, were not commonly taken for such. This verse, with some others, in this par∣cell of sacred Writ, being generally held Apo∣cryphall; insomuch that the whole Epistle was called in question, and scarcely obtayned to bee accounted within the verge of the Canon. Per∣haps not without some ground: for that this story of Michael, and that Prophecy of Enoch, mentio∣ned in the 14 verse, are not to be found any where in Scripture. And although Saint Peter (out of whom our sacred Plagiary, Saint Iude hath taken
 most of his Epistle) have the same sense in gene∣rall termes, 2. Pet. 2. That the Angels which are greater in power and might, bring not a rayling accusation, &c. Yet that Michael did ever contend with the Divell, and contending did use such mo∣deration, we read not any where recorded, but by our Apostle in this place. Some say therefore, that this story was a common tradition amongst the Hebrewes, and from them our Apo∣stle had it. Others, that it might be some Booke then extant, which is since perished. Clemens A∣lexandrinus, and Athanasius, name one intituled 〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉; the Ascention of Moses: out of which probably it might be taken. And w