Instructions for the warres. Amply, learnedly, and politiquely, discoursing the method of militarie discipline. Originally written in French by that rare and worthy generall, Monsieur William de Bellay, Lord of Langey, Knight of the order of Fraunce, and the Kings lieutenant in Thurin. Translated by Paule Iue, Gent.


Instructions for the warres.
Amply, learnedly, and politiquely, discoursing the method of Militarie Discipline.
Originally written in French by that rare and worthy Generall, Monsieur William de Bellay, Lord of Langey, Knight of the order of Fraunce, and the Kings Lieute∣nant in Thurin.
Translated by Paule Iue, Gent.
 [illustration]  [printer's or publisher's device] 
AT LONDON Printed, for Thomas Man, and Tobie Cooke. 1589.
❧TO THE RIGHT HO∣norable, William Dauison Esquier, one of her Maiesties principall Secretaries: and of hir Highnesse most Honourable priuie Councell.HAuing deuested out of his French attyre, this learned and martiall woorke, of that famous and expe∣rienced Captaine, Mounsieur de Bellay: (the attempting and per∣fourming whereof, beeing by mee taken in hand, through the commaundement, and cheerefull en∣couragement of your Honour) I thought my selfe tyed by dutie to present you with the rype croppe of that reaped graine, which by your owne good direction was sowen and manured. Yea, a point of vnpardonable ingratitude, might it bee noted in me, if that which was hatched vnder the shelter of your fouourable protection, and deliuered vnto mee by your Honours own hands, to be translated, (for the benefit of your louing countrymen, whose weale you haue alwaies most carefully respected)

should now as a fugitiue runne away from your Honour, else-where to seeke anye other maister, friend, or patrone. Acknowledge therefore, I most humbly beseech you, your owne: and vouchsafe fauourablie to accept my poore selfe, and these my simple trauels heerein imployed, according vnto the generositie of your worthie minde. As I du∣ring life, shall remaine a daylye petitioner vnto the Almightie, for his graces bountifully to bee powred vpon you, to the aduancement of his glory, the benefit of your countrie, and your owne comfort.
Your Honours most humblie readie to doe you seruice: Paule Iue.To all Gentlemen Souldiers, and others, the Readers of this Booke.A Lawfull vse of Armes there is,
a time of wreckfull warre,
When Countries cause dooth craue defence,
from force of forren iarre.
Els should we not our liues, our Wiues,
our Babes ne goods enioye:
From rampaunt clawe of greedie Gull,
that thirsts for our annoye.
And Prince might seeme in vaine to sway
the Sword and regall Mace:
If that hee should not curbe the rage
of foes deuoid of grace.
Let vs therefore in egall Skales,
all circumstances waye,
Why, when, where, how, & vnder whom
wee dinting Sword assaye.
And wee shall finde in sacred lore,
how warre from God aboue,
Good warrant hath, who dooth the same,
by sundrie texts approoue.
The Israelites great slaughter made,
of them of Mydi