Respublica de decimis. Written by Sir VVilliam Cockburne of Langtoun Knight


RESPVBLICA DE DECIMIS.
WRITTEN BY Sir VVilliam Cockburne of LANGTOVN Knight.
 [illustration] 
EDINBVRGH, Printed by Iohn Wreittoun Anno Domini 1627.
To the right honourable and my noble parts, My LORDS COMMISSIONERS appoynted for refor∣mation of diuerse abuses, and first of Tithes.REason, by reason of some secreet surmising (beleeued by the weaker minds, and fostred by the more particularie inclined) that no reformation annent that matter of Tithes is intended, hath imployed mee (as one, whose interest it principally or rather onlie concernes,) Faithful∣ly to report vnto your LL. the true mind of every severall part of my composition: as I haue receaued it from him my over Lord directour and resumer of euery particu∣lare thought, not only of euery particular partie in this businesse, but euen of euerie particular person in what∣soeuer businesse hath potentia truely to thinke. But if any man bee curious to see my procuratory, let him search the hollow of his owne breast, there shall hee finde it.
THE MIND OF THE KING MY HEAD.OVr gratious Soueraigne aimes nowise to prejudge any mans right, nor to vrge any man further than what hee is tyed vnto by Law: But only out of his princely care, of my benefite intends a reformation of all abuses, and first of Tithes; which is vnderstood to bee threefold.
First, the abuse of their dedication by him who only is proprietar therof, God, The tithes are mine, and I haue gi∣uen them to the Leuite, whereby is easily perceiued that the Pastors and Instructers in true knowledge, and the wor∣ship of God, are [ante omnia] to bee sustained, entertai∣ned and maintained, euery man in his place or degree of imployment, by whom the Church is builded, and euery particular person is formed a liuing stone for rai∣sing thereof, the chiefe corner remaining, Christ.
Secondly, of vplifting the same, whereby the fruites of the ground are subject to many inconvenients, part∣ly by the sloath, and partly by the malice of Tith-pos∣sessours the one beeing carelesse to separate the same from the stocke in due time, and the other maliciously refusing to doe it in due time; wherby the stock in these cold and Northerne partes are subject to the hazard of many inconvenients, by tempestuous weather: As also comming to Tithe, they bring with them such a confluence of men and beasts, like locustes ouershadow∣ing the face of the Earth, running through euery corne field, that the poore labourer of the ground is not able to see the destruction of his fruites, his body not beeing vbiquiter, and therfore cannot tell of what to complaine.
Thirdly, by vsurpation vnder the cullour of tithing to intromet with the stock, or a great part thereof, against all reason, law of God, and man: And for reformation of these abuses, Willes that the parties justly grieued, giue in their best ouertures unto your LL. of whose due∣tiefull care his Majestie rests sufficientlie assured.
THE MIND