Resolues, diuine, morall, politicall b Owin Felltham


 [illustration] Deo Amicis{que}AmorInnocentiaPrudentiaResolues Diuine, Morall Politicall by Owin Felltham Hor. ser. lib. jo.
His ego Comodius, quam tu praeclare Senator millibus at{que} alijs Ʋiuo.London Printed for Henry SeileLEX EVAN•FIDES
TO THE MOST VERTVOVS, DISCREET, AND Noble; the Lady DORO∣THY CRANE, daughter to the right Honorable, and Religious, the Lord HOBART.MADAME,IF euer Reso∣lutions were needfull, I thinke they

be in this Age of loose∣nesse; wherein, 'twere some vnhappinesse to bee good, did not the Consciousnesse of her owne worth, set vertue firme, against all dis∣heartnings. This makes her of so specious a glo∣rie, that though shee need not the applause of any, to adde to her happinesse; yet she at∣tracts the hearts of all that know her, to Loue, Seruice, Admira∣ration.

That I haue sa∣cred this offertory of my thoughts to your Ladyship, this is reason inough; if not, your Loue to my dearest friend, may second it. To apparell any more in these paper vest∣ments, I should multi∣ply impertinents; and perhaps displease. For I haue euer found face∣commendation to dye Wisedomes cheeke of a blush-colour. Discreet

Nature is alway mo∣dest, and deseruing best, loues least to heare on't. This onely I will truely adde: that I know not the thing of that value, should make me shrine vp a worke of this na∣ture, to any, in whom I could obserue, the pos∣sibility of a faile in Ver∣tue. Such a Dedication were to put Vertue to a Stepdame, that would not nurse, but stifle her. With your Goodnesse, I

am sure, shee shall finde the tendernesse of a ma∣ternall loue. And if in these weake extracti∣ons, your Iudicious eye light you to ought, in∣creasing that affection (all by-respects put a∣way) my next Petition will bee: that it may please you to command
Your immutable seruant, OW. FELTHAM.TO THE PERVSER.TO beginne with Apologies, and intreate a kinde Gensure, were to dispa∣rage the Worke, and begge partialitie: e∣quall with Ostentation I ranke them both. If thou

bee'st wise, pleasing words cannot blinde thy iudge∣ment from discerning er∣rors, wheresoeuer they ap∣peare. If thou bee'st foo∣lish, they can neither blāch thy folly, nor make thee thinke better, than thy in∣discretion leades thee to. Requests from others, may sway our words, or a∣ctions; but our mindes will haue their owne free thoughts, as they appre∣hend the thing. Internall iudgement is not easily

peruerted. In what thou shalt heere meete with, vse the freedome of thy natiue opinion: Et Lectorem, et Correctorem liberum volui. I shall euer pro∣fesse my selfe his debtor, that greets me with repre∣hensions of Loue. The noblest part of a friend, is an honest boldnesse in the noting of errors. He that tells me a fault, ayming at my good; I must thinke him wise and faithfull: wise, in spying that which

I see not: faithfull, in a plaine admonishment, not tainted with flattery. That I haue made it publique, I pleade not the importuni∣ti