Three sermons lately preached at Boston. I. Shewing the vertue of Christs blood to cleanse from sin. II. That natural men are under the government of self-love. III. That the Gospel is the means of conversion. : To which a fourth is added, to stir up young men and maidens to praise the name of the Lord. / By Solomon Stoddard A.M. Pastor of Northampton.


Three SERMONS LATELY Preach'd at Boston.
I. Shewing the Vertue of CHRIST'S Blood to Cleanse from Sin.
II. That Natural Man are under the Government of Self-Love.
III. That the Gospel is the Means of Conversion.
To which a Fourth is added, To stir up Young Men and Maidens TO Praise the Name of the LORD.
By Solomon Stoddard A. M. Pastor of Northampton.
BOSTON in N. E. Printed by B. Green, for Daniel Hench|man, Sold at his Shop over against the Brick Meeting House. 1717.
SERMON, I. Shewing the Vertue of CHRISTS Blood to Cleanse from Sin.I. Epistle of JOHN, I.7. last part.— And the Blood of Jesus Christ|his Son cleanseth us from all Sin.
IN these Words we have the com|mendation of the blood of Christ. By the blood of Christ we are not to un|derstand the natural blood of Christ: if a Man had kept some Ounces of that when it ran out of his side, it would have done him no good: but the meaning is, the Sufferings of Christ, especially his bloody death. The commendation of it is, (1.) That it has an Efficacy to cleanse us from Sin. Sin is a pollution and stain: it renders Men offensive to God, it makes them filthy in the Eye of God; it exposes them to
Gods wrath: but the blood of Christ clean|seth us: Rev. 1.5. Jesus Christ washeth us from our sins in his own blood. (2.) The greatness of the efficacy: it cleanseth away all sin. Some Sins are of a double die, scar|let Sins; some have committed a Multitude of Sins, and nothing else can cleanse from any one Sin, but this cleanseth from all. This is amplifyed by the reason, His Son: if he had been a Man, if he had been only the Son of Mary, his blood would have had no such vertue: but he being the Son of God, his blood cleanseth from all Sin.
DOCTRINE.There is Mighty Vertue in the blood of Christ to Expiate the guilt of Sin.The Law of God condemns for Sin. Rom. 6.23. The wages of sin is death. It brings Men under obligation to suffer Eternal Punish|ment. All Men by Sin are exposed to the wrath of God. This begets a great deal of disquietment in the hearts of some Men, they would gladly be put into a way to be deli|vered from the guilt of Sin; they have tryed some methods and they don't effect the thing, Prayers and Tears will not do; but this Doctrine gives an account what will do: There is vertue in the blood of Christ to do it. Some things have a tendency to work this and that Effect, but they are not always
powerful; but there is worth enough in the blood of Christ to take away Sin. Other things are no ransom for the Soul; but they that have an interest in the blood of Christ are delivered from the guilt of Sin. It is all one whether Mens Sins be more or s