A devout contemplation on the meaning of Divine Providence, in the early death of pious and lovely children. Preached upon the sudden and lamented death of Mrs. Elizabeth Wainwright. Who departed this life, April the 8th. 1714. Having just compleated the fourteenth year of her age. / By Benjamin Colman, Pastor to a church in Boston.


A Devout Contemplation On the Meaning of Divine Providence, in the Early DEATH Of Pious and Lovely Children.
Preached upon the Sudden and Lamented DEATH of Mrs. Elizabeth Wainwright. Who Departed this Life, April the 8th. 1714. Having just compleated the Fourteenth Year of Her Age.
By Benjamin Colman, Pastor to a Church in Boston.
Boston, Printed by John Allen, for Joanna Perry, at her Shop on the North-side of the Town-House. 1714.
To my Honoured FRIENDS, the Mourn∣ful RELATIVES of the Deceased Mrs. Elizabeth Wainwright.IT may doubtless become that Pastoral Rela∣tion which it has pleased the DIVINE PROVIDENCE to Honour Me with toward many of You, to give You this publick Expression of my deep Sympathy in your present Sorrow, and to minister as I am able to your Support under it, and Profit from it.
I pray GOD to Sanctifie to Your Selves, & to your Families the many surprizing Breaches, which have within a few years been made upon that late Flourish∣ing part of your Family; and in particular the sudden Death of this Lovely BRANCH which we now mourn.
You had a great deal of Pleasure & Comfort in Her the few days that GOD spar'd Her to you; nor did the Town show a Child more Amiable in Person, or more Innocent and Vertuous in Behaviour; of a more sweet Disposition, or seemingly better Inclin'd: not a Child scarce of greater Hopes, or more universally Esteem'd. So fair a Mind in so fair a Body was in∣deed worthy to be lov'd. Nor was She without the happy Signs of a Spirit of true Devotion toward GOD, as well as full of endearing Love and Good∣ness, Humility and Meekness toward all whom She Conversed with: those Ornaments which are in the sight of GOD of great Price.
i
I shall never forget the Agonies of Distress I found You in, as Many of you as could suddenly get together on the Alarm of her Unexpected Change: Nor wou'd I have You to forget your own gracious Expressions of Humiliation and holy Fear, Submission and Adoration, in the transports of your Grief on that sad Occasion. O the Astonishing Spectacle we then had before our Eyes, of the Vanity of our Best Estate in this Life! What a poor thing are Riches, or Children and Families, or any Earthly Enjoyments to build any Expecta∣tion on: Our dayes upon Earth are as a Shadow, and there is no abiding.
Many of You, my Good Friends, are in the Prime of Life, and some in your Youth, just En∣tring on a Vain World, in Superior Circumstances with respect to Outward Rank and Estate. Suffer me therefore to Exhort You to get above these empty transitory Temptations that do surround You, and endanger you. You have the more need to think often of Death, and of parting with every