A speech of VVilliam Thomas, esquire Ianurary, 1641 concerning the right of Bishops sitting and voting in Parliament : wherein hee humbly delivereth his opinion that their sitting and voting there is not onely inconvenient and unlawfull


A SPEECH OF VVilliam Thomas, Esquire. Ianuary, 1641.
Concerning the right of Bishops sitting and voting in Par∣liament: wherein hee humbly delivereth his opinion, that their sitting and voting there, is not onely inconvenient, and un∣lawfull, but that it is not necessary for the making up of free and full Parliaments; nay, that they have no right thereto, for such reasons as he declareth.
Parliaments and Statutes therein made being of force, and no way nulls, notwithstanding their absence, whether volun∣tary or inforced; and that they have not right to their temporalties, whereby they challenge their right to sit and vote in the House of Lords, Lay Peeres:
And therefore under correction he doth thinke that the se∣verall Petitions of the City of London and others, as unto that, were fairly and justly offered:
And as they ought of due right to be admitted and recei∣ved, so to be speedily debated, and voted, as he humbly conceiveth.
Printed at London by Th. Harper. 1641.
A SPEECH OF VVilliam Thomas, Esquire.I Have lately declared my opinion herein in part as to the inconve∣nience: I have also expressed that I was of the same minde as to the unlawfulnesse of the sit∣ting of Bishops in the house of Lords, which I did but briefly touch, therefore desire I may a little further enlarge my selfe, there being a necessity thereof, (as shall ap∣peare) for that in the delivery of that which I am now to speake of, it cannot bee avoided. I say now that I doe likewise conceive that they have no right to sit there, and in my render and proofe hereof I will bee as briefe as I may, or the matter permit, avoyding re∣petition

of any thing formerly spoken: for I will not Actum agere, or Cramben bis coctam ponere; it hath al∣wayes beene ill relished, and cannot at this time but be most distastfull: for as with Iuvenal in his Satyres,
Nam quecunque sedens modo legerat haec eadem stans,
Proferet atque eadem cantabit versibus lisdem,
Occidit miseros Crambe repetita magistros.

Answerable to the Greeke Proverbe, 〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉.
But to the point of the right of Bishops to sit there, which I deny, alledging it to be a meere usurpation, and a possession unduly gained, and wrongfully held, yet such as received interruption: and as King Iames in his premonition speaketh of the Bishop of Rome and his usurped authority, so may I of their sitting in Parliament: It is not enough (saith he) to say as Par∣sons doth in his answer to the Lord Cooke, that farre more Kings of this Country have given many more examples of acknowledging or not resisting, some perhaps lacking the occasion, and some the ability of resisting; for even by the Civill Law in the case of a violent intrusion and long wrongfull possession, it is enough if it bee proved