A short censure of the book of W.P. entituled, The University of Oxfords plea, refuted


A SHORT CENSURE OF THE BOOK OF W. P. ENTITULED, The Ʋniversity of Oxfords Plea, Refuted.
 [illustration]  [printer's or publisher's device]  [illustration] SAPI∣EN∣TIA FELI∣CIT∣ATE [depiction of book] ACADEMIA OXONIENSIS
Printed in the Yeare, 1648.
A short Censure of the Booke of VV. P. ENTITULED, The Ʋniversity of Oxfords Plea refuted.I May not in respect of the place where I am, LONDON, wherein it is perillous, if not capitall, to write Law: nor I cannot in re∣spect of my occasions, which will not per∣mit me too, I have not leisure to write much, make any large refutation of that Book: But shall only content my self with an 〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉, the work of one day, A briefe Censure of the Book: First, in generall; next, in particular.
In this, and other of his Writings, I find the Author to pro∣fesse  [ 1]  much diligence, as if he were an industrious and a volu∣minous Compiler of the Acts and Speeches of other men, many of them are very truly quoted, some mis-reported, most mis-understood. The man may be thought (perhaps) to be one of a large and vast memory, but certainly of a narrow and slender judgement, which by an infelicity in the braine (in the opinions of Aristotle in his Problemes, and the Author of The Tryall of Wits) doe often meet together: Whence it com∣monly

comes to passe, that at the end and close of his labours, he leaves his adversaries with more truth, or at least more evi∣dence on his side, then he first found about him; as in this Book against his once Mother the Vniversity of Oxford shall more appeare.
2. And therefore I come in the second place to a more par∣ticular discussing of this his last piece, The University Plea, (which in his Book he vaunts to have fully refuted) he makes to be this:
That the right of Visiting the University of Oxon, is onely in the Kings Majestie: and that it is exempt from all other Jurisdi∣ction, both by Foundation, Prescription, and severall Grants of Exemption.
Whether this be the Vniversities Plea by their Delegates, in totidem verbis, which he againe repeats, pag. 7, 8. calling it A false Plea, I am not able to say, having now forgotten it: But because he often mentions it in his Script, in the very same words, I will beleeve he hath not committed that fault of mis-recitall here: But I am confident he hath mis-under∣stood it quite throughout. And therefore in my duty and love to my deare Mother the Vniversity of Oxford, I will be bold to render her sense and meaning of her Plea in these words a little more enlarged.
That the Supreame and Primitive Right of Visiting the Uni∣versity of Oxford, as it is an University, (not of a particular Colledge in it, which hath a speciall kind of endowment of ano∣ther consideration) is onely in the Kings Majesty, as an ancient inseparable jurisdiction annexed to his Crowne. And that it is exempt from all other jurisdiction (but what is immediately de∣rived fro