Vox stellarum: or, the voyce of the stars being a brief and easie introduction to the knowledge of the number, names and characters of the planets and signs, aspects and anticions: the division of heaven, and how to erect a figure thereof, either by a table of houses or by a table of right and oblique ascentions: an exact and true description of the planets and signs, with the countries, cities or towns under them. Likewise, how to judge of the affairs of the world, by revolutions, eclipses, great conjunctions and blazing stars. Also, something touching the Popish Plot, and other remarkable affairs of the year, 1678. By William Knight, student in astrology and physick.


VOX STELLARUM: OR, THE Voyce of the STARS;
Being a brief and easie INTRODUCTION, TO THE Knowledge of the Number, Names and Characters of the Planets and Signs, Aspects and Anticions: the Division of Heaven, and how to erect a Figure thereof, either by a Table of Houses or by Tables of Right and Oblique Ascentions: an exact and true De∣scription of the Planets and Signs, with the Countries, Cities or Towns under them.
LIKEWISE, How to judge of the Affairs of the World, by Revolutions, Eclipses, great Con∣junctions and Blazing-Stars.
ALSO, Something touching the Popish Plot, and other Remarkable Affairs of the Year, 1678.
By William Knight, Student in Astrology and Physick.
Si Deus nobiscum quis contra nos?London, Printed by E. T. and R. H. for Thomas Passinger at the Three Bibles on London-Bridge, 1681.
TO THE READER.Courteous Reader,THe divine and laudable Science of Astrology, is a Learning that teaches by the Natures, Motions, Configurations, Significations, and Influences of the Heavens and Stars therein, how to judge of future Contin∣gencies, or predict natural Events: the word Astrology, is derived from Astra and Logos, which is as much as to say the Speech, reasoning or language of the Stars; and to this we find the Psalmist consent, when he sings, the Heavens declare the glory of God, and the Firmament shew∣eth his handy works: day unto day uttereth speech, and night unto night sheweth know∣ledge: there is no speech nor language, where their voice is not heard: their line is gone out through all the earth, and their words to the end of the World: in them hath he set a Taber∣nacle

for the Sun, which is a Bridegroom com∣ing out of his Chamber•, and rejoyceth as a strong man to run a race: his going forth is from the ends of the Heaven, and his circuit unto the ends of it: and there is nothing hid from the heat thereof, Psalm the 19.1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6. Thus being led by the signification of the word, or appellation of this Noble Art, unto those places of Scripture first; I shall now look back to the beginning of the Holy Writ, and so take along in order several portions thereof, that farther prove the Stars to have influence on all sub-lunary things, whether Animal, Vege∣table, or Mineral; to begin then, observe, And God said, let there be Lights in the Fir∣mament of the Heave