A sermon preached before the right honourable the lord mayor and court of alderman, at St. Bride's church, on Wednesday in Easter-week, April 11th. 1694 by John Hartcliffe ...


Mr. HARTCLIFFE's SERMON, BEFORE The LORD MAYOR, &c.
Ashurst Mayor.Martis xvii. die Aprilis 1694. Anno{que} Regis & Reginae Will. & Mariae, Angl. &c. sexto.
THis Court doth desire Mr. Hartcliffe to print his Sermon preached be∣fore the Lord Mayor, Aldermen and Governours of the several Hospitals of this City, on Wednesday in Easter-Week last, at the Parish-Church of S. Brides.
Goodfellow.
A SERMON Preached before The Right Honourable the LORD MAYOR AND Court of ALDERMEN, AT St. BRIDE's CHURCH, ON Wednesday in Easter-Week, April 11th. 1694.
BY JOHN HARTCLIFFE, B. D. and Canon of Windsor.
May 1. 1694. Imprimatur, GEO. ROYSE.
LONDON: Printed for Charles Harper, at the Flower-de-luce over against St. Dunstan's Church, Fleetstreet, 1694.
To the Right Honourable Sir William Ashurst, Knight, LORD-MAYOR, &c.My Lord,A Discourse upon Charity (tho it be much below the Dignity of the Subject) must be welcome to your Lordship, because this Vertue seems so very agreeable to your natural Temper, as it appears in your Methods of Governing this great City, which are like those of Charity in a Religious course of Life, prudent, steddy, just and peaceable. Every good Man, in his Station, is bound to do what he can towards the Amendment of an Evil Age; but the chief Magistrate of so famous a City, and the worthy Governours of the Hospitals thereof, are great and eminent Examples, which must have a stronger Power to persuade others to be good,
than any Arguments besides. Now, for all our Di∣seases, the most efficacious Remedy is the Practice of Charity, which is very much in the Power of Rulers to apply well, and with the most pro∣bable Success. Therefore that your Lordship, together with the liberal and generous Patrons of the Poor in this place, may be found so doing when our Master shall come to call you to the Re∣gions of the Blessed, where nothing but perfect Charity and Peace reign for ever, is the Prayer of
Your Lordship's most humble and obedient Servant, John Hartcliffe.JOB, Chap. xxxi, V. xix. If I have seen any perish for want of clothing, or any poor without covering, &c.JOB is the great Example of Charity as well as Pa∣tience; from whom the Devil, neither by his tem∣ptations nor torments, could extort one repining word in the midst of his Sufferings: in his deepest groans and sighs we do not hear one murmur against the Justice or the Purity of God. What an admirable crea∣ture is the innocent, tho afflicted, Man! whose Hopes are raised above this World, and who bears his Troubles with so much resignation to the will of God: how often doth Satan call him Coward for this good dispositon, in hopes at least to provoke him to a raillery against Provi∣dence, because he knew he had no other way to conquer him, but by himself. Notwithstanding, Job remains un∣blameable, and unshaken by all