A declaration or ordinance of the Lords and Commons assembled in Parliament that the committee for the militia of London shal have full power and authority to raise new regiments of voluntiers aswell within the said city and liberties as without, and them to traine and put in readinesse for the suppression of all rebellions, insurrections and invasions that may happen within the said city, and parts adjacent, and for the safe guarding thereof : for which the persons so imployed shall be saved harmlesse by the power of Parliament, and their service taken as acceptable testimonies of their reall intentions for the good and safety of the Common-wealth in these times of imminent danger.


 A DECLARATION OR ORDINANCE Of the Lords and Commons Assembled in Parliament, That the Committee for the Militia of London shal have full power and authority to raise new Regiments of Voluntiers aswell within the said City and Liberties as without; and them to Traine, and put in readinesse, for the suppression of all rebellions, insurrections, and invasions, that may hap∣pen within the said City, and parts adjacent, and for the safe guarding thereof.
For which, the persons so imployed shall be saved harmlesse by the power of Parliament, and their service taken as acceptable testimonies of their reall intentions for the good and safety of the Common-wealth in these times of imminent danger.
Die Mercurii, 12 April. 1643.
ORdered by the Lords and Commons Assembled in Par∣liament, that this Ordinance or Declaration shall be forthwith printed and published.
Io. Browne Cler. Parliamentorum.
LONDON, Printed for Iohn Wright in the Old-baily, April 13. 1642.
 [illustration]  [woodcut of crowned Tudor rose]  [illustration]  [woodcut of crowned thistle]  [illustration]  [woodcut of crowned fleur-de-lis]  [illustration]  [woodcut of crowned harp] 
Die Mercurii, 12 April. 1643.AN Ordinance or Declaration of the Lords and Commons in Parliament Assembled.THat the Committee for the Militia of London, for the better securing and safety thereof, the Parliament, and parts adjacent, shall have full Power and Autho∣rity, by themselves and such as shal be by them entrusted to raise
 Regiments of Voluntiers, as well within the City and Liberties, as without, in the Parishes mentio∣ned in the weekely Bill, for de∣fence of the City, Parliament, and those places, as they shall see cause; And that the same new Forces shall be within the Regi∣ment and Command of the said Militia.
WHereas for better defence and safeguard of the City of Lon∣don, whereon the safety and welbeing of this present Par∣liament, and therein of our Religion, Lawes, and Liberties, doe so much depend, divers well affected persons by approbation of the Committee for the Militia there, have with great care and industry, as well within the City and Li∣berties, as without in the neighbour Parishes, obtained divers Subscripti∣ons for considerable numbers of honest
 and trusty persons, not imployed in the Militia, or Trained ba