M. Jurieu, the famous French Protestant divine, his account of the present persecution of the Protestants in France.


M. JURIEU, the Famous French Protestant Divine, his Account of the present Persecution of the Pro∣testants in France.HE says, That he has assurance from good hands, that the present Persecution does not advance Popery in France; but on the contrary, makes it lose its credit, for the Violence of the persecuters, and the Complaints of the persecuted, hath occasioned many People to en∣quire into the Reformed Religion, that would not otherwise have done it: That the seizing of Prote∣stant Books hath occasioned their falling into the hands, and the convincing of many Men of Sense, that would otherwise never have seen them: That the people in many Provinces long for a Reformati∣on: That there are great Cities of many thousand Inhabitants, where one third of them are enlighten∣ed: That within this 15 years there have been more Papists converted in that Kingdom than ever: And that whereas formerly many of their Ecclesiasticks, who pretended to turn Protestants, were meer Li∣bertines, it is otherwise now, those of them that come over being generally Persons of great Parts & Piety; and that if the Protestant States were as zea∣lous to advance Truth as the Papists are to destroy it, many Popish Ecclesiasticks of Note would de∣sert that Church, which be begs Protestant Sove∣raigns to take into Consideration.
He adds, That for 40 years the Papists in France have been divided amongst themselves into Moli∣nists and Jansenists: That there's a new Sect sprung up call'd Quictists; and that the Socinians begin to grow very considerable amongst them, & have for a long time had footing in many of their most famous Convents. That he is well assur'd, that they gene∣rally read Episcopius, whence they drink in Pelagia∣nism, and after wards that which the Bishop of Meaux calls a moderate Socinianism, which is confirm'd by M. d. Valone, formerly a Canon of the Monastery of St. Genevive, who hath lately renounc'd Popery, and join'd himself to the French Church at Nuremborg in Germany, he says, in his Book, that in all the Mo∣nasteries of the Canons Regulars of St. Genevive, there's a Party who call themselves Scripturists, or the Little Church, and either publickly espouse the Socinian Tenets, or maintain that it becomes great Wits to be for an universal Toleration: That the General, and all the great Officers of the Society, were of the Cabal: That M. de Valone having given Information of this, was thrown into Prison by the General, where he had like to have lost his Life, but being sustained by the Abbot of Ʋrbec, he procur'd an Order by the King to discharge the Abbot of St. Geneviva, and the rest, and that the Society should chuse others in their place.
M. Jurieu adds, That Popery is in a worse Con∣dition in France than ever: that it is in the hands either of the Mad persecuting Clergy, who ruine its Credit by their Cruelties, or in the hands of Laicks