Rebellion unmasked or A sermon preached at Poplar in the parish of Stepney (in the new chappel there lately erected by the Honourable Society of the East-Indie-Company) upon occasion of the late rebellious insurrection in London.:  Wherein is opened the resemblances between rebellion and the sins of witchcraft and idolatry, as also the pretences for rebellion answered. By Thomas Marriot, M.A. of Kath. H. in Cambridge, and chaplain to the East-Indie-Company.


REBELLION UNMASKED OR A SERMON PREACHED At Poplar in the Parish of Stepney (in the new Chappel there lately erected by the Honourable Society of the East-Indie-Company) upon occasion of the late Rebel∣lious insurrection in London.
WHEREIN Is opened the resemblances between Rebel∣lion and the sins of Witchcraft and Ido∣latry, as also the pretences for Rebellion Answered.
By THOMAS MARRIOT, M. A. of Kath. H. in Cam∣bridge, and Chaplain to the East-Indie-Company.
ROM. 13.1.2.Let every soul be subject unto the higher powers, for there is no power but of God, the powers that be, are ordained of God.
Whosoever therefore resisteth the power resisteth the ordinance of God, and shall receive to themselves damnation.
LONDON, Printed by I. R. for Thomas Iohnson, at the Golden Key in S. Paul's Church-yard, 1661.
Imprimatur.
Ian. 18. 1660.Reverendo in Christ. Patri D. D. Gilberto Episc. Londinensi. Sacellanus Domesticus Georg. Stradling.An Advertisement to the READER.THese are to let thee understand (Christian Reader) that this Sermon was not in its first framing intended for publick view, onely composed for the benefit of a private and plaine auditory, and indeed had it not been desired by some, and had I not had strong convictions on my spirit concerning the present necessity of the Subject, it had gone no further then those to whom it was first preached; let the shortness of the time, I had to compose it, plead something for its plaine garb in which it doth ap∣peare, it being preached on the 13. Ian. the Lords day next following the Rebellious insurrections in London, it being likewise a more then ordinary busy week with me upon some other occasions. I am not unsensible how many uncharitable cen∣sures I am like to bear from some for it, but let such know that by the peace I have in my own conscience I am provided to bear them all; and like a Christian, consider, if thou shalt judge the
Author rashly, it will most redound to thy own hurt, and be an addition of guilt to thy own con∣science. Some few words I have changed in the printing of it, but nothing of the sence of what was delivered, and some few lines (though very few) I have added in one or two places for illustration sake; also one head which (being cast upon the straites of time) was through hast omitted, is here inserted. The rest is intire as it was preached both for sence and words. Be not e're the more out of love with truth, though thou meet it in a plain dress, read without Gall or prejudice, study and seek the Churches peace, so shalt t