Sir Philip Sydneys ouránia that is, Endimions song and tragedie, containing all philosophie. Written by N.B.


SIR PHILIP SYDNEYS Ourania, That is, Endimions Song and Tragedie, Containing all Philosophie.
Written by N. B.
LONDON Printed by Ed. Allde, for Edward White, and are to be solde at the little North doore of Saint Paules Church, at the signe of the Gun. 1606.
TO MY EVER-HONO∣red Lady and Mistris Ar∣cadian Cynthia, Maria Pem∣brokiana.
WOrlds wonder, learned, mightie Cinthia,
Artes Darling, & Times Babe, subiect of fame,
Wits obiect, Arcadian Pastorella
Wisdomes Trophae honor and vertues frame,
Pardon (Princesse) though I conceale thy name.
Thy Traine, and Paragons of high degree
Homer and Virgill, vsed to doe the same,
And Astrophill when hee decyphred thee,
Baxtero Mastix may disparage mee,
That I dare make thee subiect of my pen,
At whose aspect Poets amazed be,
As things beyond the reach, of priuate men.
But wonder, Learning, witte, Fame, Wisdome, Time,
Shall glorifie the subiect of this Rime.

Time, wisdome, learning, witte wonder and fame,
Endimion tould me should attend on thee:
He consecrat's Ourania to thy name,
Without respect of paedanticall fee,
But if perchaunce great Astrophill thou see,
And Fates with-holde thee from Endymion:
Hee humbly sues that hee released be,
Of arrogancy, and proesumption,
That he without his knights iniunction
Should dedicate vnto thy princely Shrine,
The treasurie, and hidden function,
Of Iehouahs Hexameron diuine.
And he that whilome liu'd in Graecian deep's,
Craues helpe of thee, as he in English creep's.
N. B.To the right Honorable and vertuous 〈◊〉 the La. Katherine Countesse of Huntington, the Ladie Mary Countesse of Pembrooke: the Ladie Susan Coun∣tesse of Mongomria: and the Lady Barbara Viscounte• Lisle, wife to the noble Knight Sir Robert Sidney Viscount Lisle.
THey say the soaring Eagle eates no Flies,
yet it may pleasure her to see them play:
The smallest sparke that couch'd in embers lies,
Shew's whilom sier in that circle lay,
Each thing created may yeeld a sweet delight,
To wi•est witts perpending it aright.

Great Macedon when he laid by his Launce,
Sported himselfe with Homers golden verse,
And Hercules in his obscured traunce,
Would needs haue Theseus Madrigals reherse,
And Astrophill when bloodie warrs were donne,
Pastim'd himselfe to see the Muses ronne.

The wisest Monarch of Hierusalem,
View'd the Pismire for recreation,
Glorious Adam, Seth, Methusalem,
Had Marble stones in admiration.
Plinie, and Virgill wrote of seely Bees,
Of Gnats, of Fleas, of Shrubs, and Mirtle trees.

Yea simple•wormes are vsed for a sport,
And Ladies loue to see a Monkey play,
And euerie tyred wit seeketh comfort,
In honest myrth to passe the time away:
The Ladies Spaniel snarling in her lap,
Sometimes delights her after her mis-hap.

The greatest Clearks of yore to trie their wit,
Made foolishnesse the subiect of their Pen,
And for their pleasures others thought it fit,
To proue that Baldnesse best becomme