Problemes of beautie and all humane affections. VVritten in Italian by Tho: Buoni, cittizen of Lucca. With a discourse of beauty, by the same author. Translated into English, by S.L. Gent.


PROBLEMES OF BEAVTIE and all humane affections.
Written in Italian by Tho: Buoni, cittizen of Lucca.
With a discourse of Beauty, by the same Author.
Translated into English, by S. L. Gent.
AT LONDON Printed by G. Eld, for Edward Blount, and William Aspley. 1606.
To the right wor∣thy, and my honora∣ble friend, Maister Samson Lennard, Esquire.AMongst those many duties that are re∣quired in a man any way obliged for a benefit receaued, Seneca setteth this downe for one, Caue ne clam gratiam referas, Take heed least thou smoother thy

thankfulnesse in such a manner as if thou were ashamed, either of him from whom thou recei∣uest, or of thy selfe that thou shouldest receiue; for, Ingratus est qüi remotis arbitris grati∣as agit. This is the reason (right worshipfull) that hath made me bold at this time to dedi∣cate these my simple labours vnto your selfe, not because I thinke them any way worthy your worthinesse, or sufficient in the smallest proportion that may be, to requite those infinite bounties. I haue receiued from you: but to make knowne vnto the world that I am not asha∣med to acknowledge how much

I am bound to bee thankfull, and how little I am able to ex∣presse my thankfulnesse as I should, that haue no better meanes to requite, then by cra∣uing more, that is, by humbly intreating that you will bee pleased, as a full recompence of your former goodnesse in sup∣plying my wants, in this little worke, to protect my infirmi∣ties: you shall thereby not onely adde much vnto your former kindnesses, but giue quickning and spirit to my future studies, and make me bold, by your fa∣uourable acceptance of this, to vndertake matter of farre greater consequence, and better

befitting your worthy patro∣nage. Which I doe the more wil∣lingly promise, because I want not will to performe it. For pity it were but I should euer liue in wants, if I should euer liue to want will, euer to loue and honour him that hath euer sup∣plied my wants. And though this be reason enough to binde me to more then I can either doe or promise, yet Nature, and Name, and bloud, and neere al∣liance, challenge a greater dutie at my hands: and if none of these were, yet forasmuch as I know not any vpon whom it hath pleased God with a more bountifull hand to poure down

his earthly blessings in this life, then vpon your selfe, it cannot but be wisdome in me, to make choise of him to blesse this worke, whom God hath so bles∣sed in this world. Pardon me (Good Sir) if out of a true ac∣knowledgment of Gods goodnes towards you, and by you to∣wards me and mine, and not from any the least touch of vaine glory, or flatterie, or doubt of the like acknowledge∣ment in your selfe, I be bold to tell you (for to my owne com∣fort I speake it) that God hath from time to time, euen from your cradle vnto this day, ch