A reply to an answer lately published to a book long since written by W.P. entituled A brief examination and state of liberty spiritual &c. by Thomas Ellwood.


A REPLY TO AN ANSWER Lately Published to a BOOK Long since written by W. P. Entituled, A Brief Examination and State of Liberty Spiritual, &c.
By Thomas Ellwood.
2 Tim. 3.13.Evil men and Seducers shall wax worse and worse, de∣ceiving, and being deceived.
Rom. 16.17.Now I beseech you, Brethren, mark them which cause Di∣visions and Offences, contrary to the Doctrine which ye have learned, and avoid them.
Printed, and Sold by T. Sowle, at the Crooked-Billet in Holloway-Lane, in Shoreditch, 1691.
THE PREFACE.IN the Year 1681. there was a small Treatise published by a Friend, under the Title of A Brief Examination of Li∣berty Spiritual, &c. The occasion of writing that Treatise was, a sense the Author thereof had, and an Observation he had made, how much the Nature of that true Spiritual Liberty was misunderstood by some, and the Name thereof abused by others in the Profession of the Truth; who, under pretence of being left to that Liberty in themselves, and to their own Freedom therein, both took liberty to do such things as were inconsistent with that true Liberty, and with the Principle of Truth which they pro∣fessed; and, despising those useful, good and necessary Helps and Means which the Lord hath provided, and furnished his Church or People with, for the preventing and keeping out such Disorders, Evils and Scandals, as the unruly Nature of man, through such a mistake of true Liberty, might and would bring in, did reject the Counsel; Admonition or Reproof of their Bre∣thren, with a What hast thou to do with me? Leave me to my own Freedom. To reclaim (if it might be) those that were thus deceived, and prevent others from being so, the Author being pressed in Spirit for Zion's sake, and for the Peace of Je∣rusalem, and having a deep Sense (as himself expresses) of the working of the Enemy of Zion's Peace to rend and divide the Heritage of God, did write the fore-mentioned Treatise for the Establishment of the Faithful, Information of the Simple-hearted, and Reproof of the Arrogant and High-minded; as

his Title Page sets forth. As that Treatise had its Service and Acceptance with the Faithful and Simple-hearted: So it has passed hitherto (for between nine and ten Years) free from the Cavils (at least Publick) of the Arrogant and High-minded, till now that of late some of them, who are of a restless Spirit (and to whom it is uneasie to be, or to let others be quiet) have sing∣led out that Book for a fresh Butt to shoot at, make that a new Occasion to renew Contention, and revive the old Controversie. In order to this they have very lately published a Book, in An∣swer (as is pretended) to several material Passages in that Book. That Answer hath in the Title Page the Letters J. H. as stand∣ing for the Author's Name. But since I have no certain know∣ledge who is meant by those two Letters, and