Proceedings of a board of general officers, held by order of His Excellency Gen. Washington, commander in chief of the army of the United States of America. Respecting Major John André, adjutant general of the British Army. September 29, 1780.


PROCEEDINGS OF A Board of General Officers, Held by Order of His Excellency General WASHINGTON, Commander in Chief of the Army of the United States of America: Respecting Major ANDRE, Adjutant Gene|ral to the British Army, Sept. 29, 1780.
To which are APPENDED, The several Letters which passed to and from New-York on the Occasion, &c.
Published by Order of Congress.
PROCEEDINGS OF A BOARD OF GENERAL OFFICERS, HELD BY ORDER OF His Excellency Gen. WASHINGTON, Commander in Chief of the Army of the United States of AMERICA. RESPECTING Major JOHN ANDRÉ, Adjutant General of the British Army. SEPTEMBER 29, 1780.
PHILADELPHIA: Printed by FRANCIS BAILEY, in Market-Street M.DCC.LXXX.
EXTRACTS OF LETTERS from General WASHINGTON, to the PRESIDENT of CONGRESS.Robison's House, in the Highlands,Sept. 26, 1780.SIR,I HAVE the honor to inform Congress, that I arrived here yesterday about twelve o'clock, on my return from Hartford. Some hours previous to my arrival Major Ge|neral Arnold went from his quarters, which were this place, and, as it was supposed, over the river to the garrison at West Point, whither I proceeded myself, in order to visit the post. I found General Arnold had not been there during the day, and on my return to his quarters he was still absent. In the mean time, a packet had arrived from Lieut. Colonel Jameson, announcing the capture of a John Anderson, who was endeavouring to go to New-York with several interesting and important papers, all in the hand writing of General Arnold. This was also accom|panied with a letter from the prisoner, avowing himself to be Major John André, Adjutant General to the British army, relating the manner of his capture, and endeavour|ing to shew that he did not come under the description of a spy. From these several circumstances, and informa|tion that the General seemed to be thrown into some de|gree of agitation, on receiving a letter a little time before he went from his quarters, I was led to conclude imme|diately that he had heard of Major André's captivity, and that he would, if possible, escape to the enemy, and accord|ingly took such measures as appeared the most probable to apprehend him. But he had embarked in a barge and proceeded down the river, under a flag, to the Vulture

ship of war, which lay at some miles below Stoney and Verplank's Points. He wrote me a letter after he got on board. Major André is not arrived yet, but I hope he is secure, and that he will be here to-day. I have been and am taking precautions, which I trust will prove effectual to prevent the important consequences which this conduct, on the part of General Arnold, was intended to produce. I do not know the party that took Major André, but it is said that it consisted only of a few mili