The history of the famous and passionate love, between a fair noble Parisian lady, and a beautiful young singing-man, a chanter in the Quire of Notre Dame in Paris, and a singer in opera's an heroic poem, in two canto's, being in imitation of Virgil's Dido and Ænes, and shews all the passions of a proud beauty, compell'd by love, to abandon her self to her inferiour : but finding some slights, how she reveng'd her self, and recovered her honor.


THE
HISTORY
OF THE
Famous and Passionate LOVE,
BETWEEN A
Fair Noble Parisian LADY,
AND A
Beautiful Young Singing-MAN;
A
Chanter in the Quire of Nôtre-Dame in Paris,
AND A
SINGER in OPERA'S.
AN
Heroic POEM.
In Two CANTO'S.
Being in Imitation of Virgil's DIDO and AENEAS; and
shews all the Passions of a Proud Beauty, compell'd by
Love, to abandon her self to her Inferiour; but finding
some slights, how she Reveng'd her self, and recovered her
Honor.
Licensed,
January 26th. 1692.
LONDON, Printed for R. T. near Sationers-Hall, 1692.
THE
EPISTLE
TO THE
READER.THis Poem was design'd for an Epsode to that called the
DAENEIDS; as that of Dido is to the AENEIDS;
but being long, 'twas thought by some, if it was joyn'd
with the other, it wou'd give too great an interruption to
that short Story, and swell it too large for this Age, which seems to
have lost its taste of Poetry; and must be dealt with, as sick Peo∣ple
are, have a little at a time given 'em, of what we wou'd
have 'em swallow. This Poem therefore is Printed by it self, which
it will very well bear, being in it self an intire Story; but there
are several Lines in this and the other, which will help to joyn 'em
together, if the Reader pleases. Both of 'em are a kind of Bur∣lesque,
directly contrary to that of Virgil Travestie, for that makes
a Hero and Heroine talk like Higlers or Costardmongers, and
this represents Priests, Chanters and Vergers, like Gods and
Heroes. I have in some places burlesqu'd some parts of Virgil, in
others endeavour'd to imitate him, and elsewhere to translate him.

But I am no servile Translator. I care not what the Laws of
Translation are; I am a Free-born Subject of England, and will
not be put in Fetters, but by the Laws of the Kingdom. I ne∣ver
say any man chain himself to an Author, without spoiling
both their meens. Two men cannot row like Galley-Slaves, lock'd
together, with a very good Grace. I have also in this and the other
Poem, made bold with the Dean, Quire, Vergers, and Church of
Nôtre-Dame. I have put the Priests in an English Dress, and
Pews into that Popish Church for the hearing of Sermons, where
perhaps none are preach'd; but I have reason for this Confidence;
French men are our King's Subjects, and ought to obey our Customs;
that Cathedral too was built by English, therefore we have a right
to Pews there, and I hope we shall have the Possession o' some,
by the help of our King's Valour and Conduct. It would be hard,
if we might not manage how we will for our Diversion, the Pi∣ctures
of a few French Priests: Fr