George Barnwell. A new novel. / By T.S. Surr, author of Consequences, a novel; and Christ's hospital, a poem. ; [Four lines from Cowper] ; Two volumes in one.


New Work. GEORGE BARNWELL. A NEW NOVEL. BY T. S. SURR, Author of Consequences, a Novel; and Christ's Hospital, a Poem.
But is amusement all?—Studious of song,
And yet ambitious not to sing in vain,
I would not trifle merely, though the world
Be loudest in their praise, who do no more.
COWPER.TWO VOLUMES IN ONE.
BOSTON: PRINTED FOR JOSEPH BUMSTEAD. SOLD BY HIM AT No. 20, UNION-STREET; BY THOMAS AND ANDREWS, NEWBURY-STREET; BY E. LARKIN, WM. P & L BLAKE, CORNHILL; AND J. NANCREDE, MARLBRO' STREET. 1800.
ADVERTISEMENT.CUSTOM has long established the right of dramatists to a property in the plots and characters of novelists; and recent instances might be adduced of novels and romances▪ which were scarcely suffered to be read, ere they were con|verted into dramas.
The equal right of the novelist to similar• trespasses upon dramatic ground cannot be contested: whether the exercise of that right, in the present instance, will be as favourably received by the public, their voice can alone determine.
As there may be those, however, who acceding the ques|tion of right, yet marvel at the author's taste in the selection or so hacknied a subject, he begs leave to state the motive of his choice.
Having been so fortunate, as to be present at Mrs. Sid|dons's performance of Milwood, he was so agreeably surpri|sed by the novel, yet just colouring, which that lady's incompa|rable talents gave to a character, till then deemed insignifi|cant, that he determined, perhaps rashly, upon the present un|dertaking.
Such readers, as have seen Milwood personated in the usual manner only, will conclude, that the copy attempted in the following sheets, differs too much from the vulgar open|ness of character they have been accustomed to associate with the original. Such as have seen Mrs. Siddons's per|formance, will, he humbly conceives, form a contrary opin|ion: and he rests perfectly at ease as to the decision of the best judges respecting the preference he has yielded to her delineation of Milwood, whose most extraordinary powers are only equalled by the just discrimination, which directs their display.
The author has deviated in several instances from the story he has adopted; has introduced some new characters, and changed the features of others; yet as the chief incidents are preserved, he thought it more candid to retain the origi|nal title, than to invent a new one.
Of his own production, he would only observe, that he be|lieves the design is novel, and respectfully submits it to the world, merely as the exercise of a mind somewhat contem|plative, in those evening hours of leisure, which the duties of a humble destination in life occasionally afford him; and by no means as the effort of a competitor for literary fame.
LONDON,September, 1798.PREFATORY DIALOGUE.FRIEND.
STOP, stop the press, my friend: with themes l