A new treatise proving a multiplicity of worlds that the planets are regions inhabited and the earth a star, and that it is out of the center of the world in a third heaven, and turns round before the sun which is fixed : and other most rare and curious things / by Peter Borell ...



A NEW TREATISE, PROVING A Multiplicity OF WORLDS.
That the Planets are Regions Inhabited, and the Earth a Star, and that it is out of the Center of the World in the third Heaven, and turns round before the Sun which is fixed. And other most Rare and Curious Things.
By PETER BORELL, Counsellor and Physitian to the King of France.
London, Printed by John Streater▪ 1658.

TO The Vertuous, AND Most Renowned Gentleman, Mr. Frederick Clodius, Doctor in Physick, His truly honoured Friend.Worthy SIR,THree conside∣rations have induced me to offer these rude and un∣polished

lines to your Patronage and favourable accep∣tance. The first is, the Learning and fame of the Author of this Treatise, who carrieth the same Title as Your Self. The second is, the worthinesse and great esteem and acuity of spirit

of that Person of Honour, Sir Ke∣nelm Digby, to whom it was offer∣ed by the Author. The third is, the worthiness, wisdom and deep Learning wherewith You are indued & adorned, which that Noble Knight well know∣ing, for an acknow∣ledgment

thereof, hath presented this Book to your view, as a piece of great novelty. I shall not presume to implore your Protection for the subject, but onely for this my rash attempt in the translating of it; which if it may auspiciously be ad∣mitted

into Your friendly estimati∣on, doubtlesse 'twill find an universall acceptance amongst Persons of greatest Eminency; All I humbly crave for the present is, my boldnesse might be favourably excu∣sed, since 'twas my lawfull Ambition

thereby to avoid Ingratitude; How∣ever this Work be esteemed, may your deserved good name and honor en∣crease more and more; which is and shall be the constant Vote of, Sir,
Your humbly devoted Servant,
D. Sashott.









A NEW TREATISE, PROVING A Multiplicity OF WORLDS.
CHAP. I.Of the Plurality of Worlds in general, being as a Preface to the following Chapters.
WE may truly say, that Preoccupation is an horrid Monster, which makes

a strange havock in the spirits of Men, hinders the progress of Sciences, and causes Men to droop in a constant igno∣rance; for they who by it are once prepossessed, can judge of nothing by them∣selves, censure the best opi∣nions that are, assert those of their Masters, whether good or bad; and having conceived a distaste of what∣soever checks what is contra∣ry to their belief, though grosse and ignorant, bring forth nothing but contempts and blames against those who endeavour to open their eyes, and root them out of the darknesse of their igno∣rance, to draw them to the enjoyment of the true light

and knowledg of things.
The which is more parti∣cularly practised now in this Age wherein we live, where∣in Men live but by imitation, wherein learn