A most humble representation in a further review, erecting a pillar of praise in acknowledgement of what God hath been pleased to do in this last remarkable year with reasons from thence of expectation of a happy revolution in the rising of the suffering witnesses of Christ, or Protestants in France, &c., the fall of the Papal and Ottoman state, and the beginning of the Kingdom of Christ in the world ...


A most Humble REPRESENTATION In a Further Review, ERECTING A Pillar of Praise, In acknowledgement of what GOD hath been pleased to Do in this Last Remarkable Year.WITH Reasons from thence of Expectation of a Happy Revolution in the Rising of the Suffering Witnesses of Christ, or Protestants in France, &c. The Fall of the Papal and Ottoman State, and the Beginning of the Kingdom of Christ in the World, speedily to be brought to pass by the Stone cut out of the Mountains not in Human hands, but to become Himself a Great Mountain, filling the whole Earth.I Am most sensible, The great Events, I hoped this last Year, have not had their Complement; and that therefore, The Censures of many are very severe upon me, according to the great Rigor of Human Nature upon it self in this Degeneracy of it.
But upon the Review of the whole Year, and the Events of it, which must needs be ac∣knowledged to be very Extraordinay Ones; and the particular Times, in which the Divine Providence did advance them, I find great Reason of Encouragement; For it pleased the great LORD of Time, through Grace in Jesus Christ, the Mediator of His Churches Times, the Great Palmoni, or Wonderful Numberer of Time; the Supreme Apocalyptes, to whom God gave that Illustr•o•s Prophecy of the New Testament; The Revelation; to direct me in a Paper published in the Fifth Month, called, July to the most particular. •••••se Times of the greatest of Events this Last Year, in both, Old, and New-Stile.
The times I fix'd upon, were, the Month of August from the 15th to the end of the Month; the 1st of September the Ancient Feast of Trumpets; the 10th of September, the Day of Jubilee; the Feast of Tabernacles from the 15th to the 22th of the same Month.
Accordingly on the 22th of August, Old-Stile, just on the Time of the Cessation of the Em∣pire of Rome in the West, (as was more fully set out in that Paper) and in New-Stile, Sep∣tember the 1st, the Feast of Trumpets; The French King comes forth, taking upon himself as a Caesar-Augustus, or Ʋniversal Monarch, to shut the Temple of Janus in an Ʋniversal Peace, or, as he spoke, Giving Repose to Eu∣rope.
On the same 22th of August, Old-Style, and September the 1st New-Style, the Imperial Armies were in motion towards the Turkish Forces, and on the 31th Old-Style, That so extraordinary and monumental Victory was obtained over the Grand Signior and his Bashaws.
On the 10th of September, Old-Style, the 20.
of September, New-Style; the Articles of Peace were Sign'd at Riswick.
These Things came to pass at the very times of this Year, that had been Foret