An old mould to cast new lawes by compiled by the Honourable Sir Thomas Smith, Knight, doctor of both lawes, and one of the principall secretaries unto two most worthy princes, King Edward & Queen Elizabeth ; reprinted out of the Common-wealth of England by a friend to old bookes and an enemy to new opinions ; together with King James his declaration to both Houses at White-hall, of the kings power in the Parliament of Scotland in making lawes, March 31, 1607.


AN OLD MOULD
TO CAST NEW LAWES BY;
COMPILED
By the Honourable Sir Thomas Smith
Knight, Doctor of both Lawes, and one
of the Principall Secretaries unto two
most worthy Princes,
King EDWARD, & Queen ELIZABETH. Reprinted out of the Common-wealth of ENGLAND,
by a friend to old Bookes, and an Enimy
to new Opinions. TOGETHER,
With King JAMES His Declaration to both
Houses at White-hall, of the Kings Power in the
Parliament of Scotland in making Lawes.
March 31. 1607.
Remember the dayes of old, Consider the years of many Generations;
ask thy Father, and he will shew thee, thy Elders and they will
tell thee. 
Deut. 32. 7.Vir bonus est Quis? Answer is made,
Qui consulta Patrum, qui Leges jura{que} servat.
Printed, M.DC.XLIII.
OF THE PARLIAMENT,
and the Authority thereof.THe most high and absolute power of the Realme of
England consisteth in the Parliament. For as in
Warre where the King himselfe in Person, the No∣bility,
the rest of the Gentility and the Yeomanry
are, is the force and power of England: so in Peace
and Consultation where the Prince is to give life,
and the last and highest Commandement: the Barrony or the Nobi∣lity
for the higher: the Knights, Esquires, Gentlemen and Com∣mons
for the lower part of the Common-wealth, the Bishops for
the Clergy be present to advertise, consult, and shew what is good
and necessary for the Common-wealth, and to consult together,
and upon mature deliberation every Bill or Law being thrice read
and disputed upon in either House, the other two parts, first each a
part, and after the Prince himselfe in presence of both the partyes
doth consent unto, & alloweth. That is the Prince's and the whole
Realmes deed: whereupon justly no man can complain, but must
accommodate himselfe to find it good and obey it.
That which is done by this consent is called Firme, Stable, and
Sanctum, and is taken for Law. The Parliament abrogateth old
Lawes, maketh new, giveth order for things past, and for things
hereafter to be followed, changeth rights and possessions of private
men, legitimateth bastards, establisheth formes of Religion, alter∣eth
waights and measures, giveth forme of succession to the

Crown, defineth of doubtfull rights, whereof is no Law already
made, appoynteth Subsidies, Tailes, Taxes and impositions, giveth
most free pardons & absolutions, restoreth in blood & name, as the
highest Court, condemneth or absolveth them whom the Prince
will put to that tryall. And to be short, all that ever the People of
Rome might doe, either in Centuriatis Comitiis or tri