An appendix to the Life of the Right Revd Father in God Seth, Lord Bishop of Salisbury written by Dr. Walter Pope ... in a letter to the author.


AN APPENDIX To the LIFE of the Right Revd Father in God SETH Lord BISHOP of Salisbury; Written by Dr. WALTER POPE, F.R.S.
IN A LETTER to the AUTHOR.
LONDON: Printed for E. Whitlock, near Stationers Hall, 1697.
An APPENDIX to the Life of the Right Reverend Father in God SETH, Lord Bishop of Salisbury.SIR,I Am wonderfully surprised at your History of the Life of Bishop WARD, considering too that you inform the World, that Your Intellectuals are as good now as ever th•y were.
Pray be pleased to recollect, that a Writer of such an History should endeavour at a concise, easie decent Stile, expressing a Reverence for the Memory of the Person whose Life he describes. The Relations ought to be contrived for instruction, and chiefly set as Paterns of Imitation. Minute matters ought to be chosen with Dis∣cretion, and common Passages just

toucht and hinted at. Whereas your Narration is drest up in a Comical and Bantering Stile, full of dry Scraps of La∣tin, Puns, Proverbs, sensless Digressi∣ons, long tedious unedifying Tales, and not without an insipid Bawdy Jest, and an impious Ridicule of the Mora∣lity of the Fourth Commandment.
I protest I cannot see one instru∣cting Page in the whole History, or that tends that way, unless it is a wild and whimsical Account of the Bi∣shop's Charity and Hospitality.
Would a Man of tolerable Judg∣ment commend a Reverend Prelate for a good Iockey, and in the History of his Life describe his Mare, with Dr. Weeks's Nag, and Dr. Pope's own Nag, with an account of the Nag's unfortunate Life and Death, though the joynt Endeavours of the best Fa∣riers were used for his recovery? What Exposition will the ill-natur'd World make, when the Author says, by way of Commendation, that his Bishop was never destitute of Friends of the fair Sex? and that he pro∣vided Husbands for his Nieces, and preferr'd them? You injudicially ridi∣cule him, when you tell the World,

he was cheated and laughed at by Surgeons and Apothecaries; you make sport with his Decay of Memory, and introduce into this History a pitiful Criticism upon Ovid de Tristibus mira∣culously redeemed from the Fire in Lombard-street. With a great deal of Solemnity you positively affirm that Dr. Barrow made use of a Tinder-Box, and had no buttons upon his Collar; for that you knew the whole mat∣ter, because you were his Bedfellow. How shrewdly do you argue, that if Dr. Barrow was born in February, it could not be in October? Your Dis∣course of sore Eyes and couching Cataracts; your Advertisement that  Mrs. Mary Turbervile is a good Ocu∣list; and that you had a disbanded Soldier for your Bed-Maker at Wad∣ham-Colledg, &c. make such a mixture of Vanity, gossipping and quibling Folly, that I cannot chuse but recol∣lect the just Character which Mr. An∣thony Wood gives of your Worship to this effect, viz.That Dr. Pope has spent much time i