The present surveigh of London and Englands state Containing a topographicall description of all the particular forts, redoubts, breast-works, and trenches newly erected round about the citie on both sides of the river, with the severall fortifications thereof. And a perfect relation of some fatall accidents, and other disasters, which fell out in the city and countrey, during the Authors abode there. Intermingled also with certaine severall observations worthie of light and memorie. By William Lithgow.


THE PRESENT SVRVEIGH OF LONDON AND ENGLANDS STATE.
Containing A Topographicall description of all the particular Forts, Redoubts, Breast-works, and Trenches newly erected round about the Citie on both sides of the River, with the severall Fortifications thereof.
And a perfect relation of some fatall accidents, and other disasters, which fell out in the City and Countrey, during the Authors abode there.
Intermingled also with certaine severall Observations worthie of light and memorie.
By William Lithgow.
London, Printed by I. O. 1643.
The present Surveigh of London, and Englands State.AFter long fourtie yeares wandring since my first launching abroad to surveigh the spacious bounds and tertiat face of the ancient world; besides my daily fastidious and now frequent p•edestriat pro∣gresses at home, and in neighbour Regions about; and being fallen in the rotten bosome of declyning age, the sun be∣ing set on the winter day of mine elabourat time, and that time past three score years: yet now I say for diverse serious respects▪ in this instant year, 1643. April 24. it was my resolution to im∣barke at Preston Pannes with sundrie passengers bound for Lon∣don: Where weighing Ankers, and hoysing saile, with roome winds and fair weather, we coasted along the Brittannian shoare. In all which deserted way betweene Forth and Gravesend wee found onely three ships, two Scots-men and a Noruegian, and one of the royall Whelps lying at Anker in AErmouth road, which made the sea resemble a wildernesse, and the devasted shoare the comfortlesse sight of a desolate land. Where never heretofore (winter excepted) these Tritonian bounds were seen (reciprocal∣ly taken) without 2000 saile, recoursing that sandie and shelfy marine
But the estate and affaires of this world are ever ranging, ever changing, never constant; which made Solon tell Craesus that man should never reckon on the felicity of this life, because there might be a mutability of fortune ere death. The like may I now say of

deplorable Germanie, lately the mother soyle of Europe, yea, and the glorie of the whole Universe, that never in these dayes of an∣tiquitie could Chaldea, Chelfania, Assyria, and Mesopotamia, the foure principall pastures for the first Creation, compare with that almost invincible Empyre for Princes, Potentates, Nobili∣tie, Imperiall Cities, Gentrie, Merchants, and rich Bowres; no, no, for it was the superabounding fulnesse of men, money and might; and indeed nothing inferior (the fall