Like precious faith obtained, through the righteousness of our God and Saviour, by all the true servants of Christ. A sermon, preached (in sum) at the Old-Church-lecture in Boston, Thursday, March 25th. 1756. / By Thomas Foxcroft, A.M. One of the Pastors of the said Church. ; [Five lines of Scripture texts]


Mr. Foxcroft's SERMON, ON Like precious Faith, &c.
Like precious FAITH obtained, through the Righteousness of our GOD and Saviour, by all the true Servants of Christ.
A SERMON, Preached (in Sum) at the Old-Church-Lecture in Boston, Thursday, March 25th. 1756.
By THOMAS FOXCROFT, A. M. One of the Pastors of the said Church.
Luk. xvii. 5.And the Apostles said unto the LORD, Increase our Faith.
Joh. ix. 35,—38.Jesus said unto him, Dost thou believe on the Son of God? He answered and said,—LORD, I believe. And he worshipped Him.
BOSTON; NEW-ENGLAND, Printed and Sold by Green & Russell, at their Printing-Office near the Custom-House, and next to the Writing-School in Queen-Street. M,DCC,LVI.
Like precious FAITH obtained, by all the true Servants of Christ, &c.2 PET. I. 1.Simon Peter, a Servant and an Apostle of Jesus Christ, to them which have obtained like precious Faith with us, through the Righteousness of God and our Saviour Jesus Christ.
IN these Words, which contain the Inscription of this Epistle, we have—
1. The Writer's Name and Stile. "Simon Peter, a Servant and an Apostle of Jesus Christ."—It is not, like some other of the sa∣cred Epistles, anonymous: but in the Face of it carries the Penman's Name; as well the additional one his Di∣vine Master had put upon him, as that which his Parents had originally given him.—Also to contribute Authority and Weight to his Letter, and gain Attention to it, he superadds a notable Appellative, signifying his being an inspired Minister of Christ, and suggesting that he wrote as he was moved by the Holy Ghost.—But while he claims the Honour of being an Apostle, he does it in such a Manner as at the same Time discovers his deep Humili∣ty. For he affects not to distinguish himself by any pompous Characterisms; as, the Chief of the Apostles;

—the First Apostle,—or, the Apostle of the Circum∣cision (much less by those vain-glorious Titles, which his pretended Successor at Rome arrogates to himself; such as, the universal Bishop, Vicar of Christ, supreme Head of the Church on Earth, or the like) but only calls himself in simple Terms, an Apostle of Jesus Christ, in common with others dignify'd with the same reverend Appellation. And even this he qualifies, by joining with it that most diminutive Title, a Servant. Though the Lord had said to his Apostles, "Henceforth I call you not Ser∣vants, but Friends"; yet Peter modestly declines the latter, and assumes to himself the former Denomination. Truly he glories in being Christ's Servant; notwithstand∣ing he was an Apostle, and more than a Prophet, yea, greater in the Kingdom of God than John the Baptist himself, though among them that are born of Women there h