Poor Robin's true character of a scold, or, The shrews looking-glass dedicated to all domineering dames, wives rampant, cuckolds couohant, and hen-peckt sneaks, in city or country.


Poor Robin's
TRUE
CHARACTER
OF A
SCOLD:
OR, THE
SHREWS Looking-glass. DEDICATED
To all
DOMINEERING DAMES,WIVES RAMPANT,CUCKOLDS COUCHANT, andHEN-PECKT SNEAKS, In City or Country. With Allowance.
LONDON: Printed for L. C. 1678.
Poor Robin's
True Character of a SCOLD.A Rank SCOLD is a Devil of the
Feminine gender; a Serpent, per∣petually
hissing, and spitting of Ve∣nom;
a Composition of Ill-nature
and Clamour. You may call her a∣nimated
Gun-powder, a walking Mount Aetna that
is always belching forth flames of Sulphur, or a
Real Purgatory, more to be dreaded in this world,
than the Popes Imaginary Hot-house in the next.
A Burr about the Moon, is not half so certain a
Presage of a Tempest at Sea, as her Brow is of a
Storm on Land. And though Laurel, Haw-thorn,
and Seal-skin are held Preservatives against Thun∣der,
Magick has not yet been able to finde any
Amulet so Sovereign as to still her Ravings: for,
like Oyl pour'd on Flames, Good words do but
make her Rage the faster; and when once her

Flag of Defiance, the Tippet, is unfurl'd, she
cares not a straw for Constable nor Cucking-stool.
Her Tongue is the Clapper of the Devil's
Saints-bell, that rings all-in to Confusion: It runs
round-like a Wheel, one spoak after another, and
makes more Noise and Jangling, than Country-Steeples
on the Fifth of November. She is never
less at ease, than when she is quiet; never quiet, but
when she is sleeping; nor then neither: for either
she talks in her Dream, or awakes the whole house
with a terrible fit of Snoring. She makes such a
Pattering with her Lips when she walks the streets,
as if she were possest; so indeed she is, with
the spirit of Contention. The Dog-days, with
her, continue all the year round; nor can she
possibly take Cold: for she is ever in an Heat,
and holds neither Pox nor Plague so grievous a
Disease, as being Tongue-ty'd.
She makes an Ass of Aristotle, and demonstrates,
That though every man be, yet many a woman
is not, A sociable Creature: for there is no Good
humour can charm her to be Civil or Agreeable;
no Company, how affable or compaisant soever,
that can long content her. She seeks occasions
for Railing, as eagerly as a Common Barretor does
to go to Law. If you will not anger her, she
will be angry with you for thus neglecting her:
and you cannot vex her worse, than to be silent,
unless you sing or whistle at her Folly. She in∣terprets

all she hears in the worst sense, and sup∣plies
the defect of real Affronts with jealous sus∣pitions.
She is more captious, than capable of
Offence; and all her Neighbours bless themselves
from her, wishing this Quotidian Feaver of her
Tongue cur'd with a Razor. Yet is not that her
onely weapon; for she has Hands to Clap with,
and Nails to Scratch with, and Teeth to Bite
with, and much more Furniture for War; so that
being