Essays on I. The nature, uses, and subjects of the sacraments of the New Testament. II. On regeneration, wherein the principle of spiritual life thereby implanted, is particularly considered. III. On the nature and use of the means of grace. By John Blair, A.M. Pastor of the Church of Good-will, (alias Wallkill) in the province of New-York. ; [Eleven lines of Scripture texts]


ESSAYS ON
•. THE Nature, Uses, and Subjects of the Sacraments of the NEW TESTAMENT.II. ON Regeneration, wherein the Principle of spiri∣tual Life thereby implanted, is particularly considered.III. ON the Nature and Use of the Means of GRACE.
By JOHN BLAIR, A. M. Pastor of the CHURCH of GOOD-WILL, (alias WALLKILL) in the Province of New-York.
MAT. 28.19.Go ye therefore and teach all Nations, baptizing them in the Name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost.
1. COR. 11.26.For as often as ye eat this Bread, and drink this Cup, ye do shew the Lord's Death till he come.
EPHES. 2.1.And you hath he quickened who were dead in Trespasses and Sins.
ROM. 3.1.2.What Advantage then hath the Jews? Or what Profit is there of Circumcision? Much every Way: Chiefly because that unto them were committed the Oracles of God.
NEW-YORK: Printed by JOHN HOLT, at the EXCHANGE M,DCC,LXXI.
The PREFACE To the READER.COURTEOUS READER,THE Apologies of Authors for appearing in print, and their craving the Indulgence of the Candid Reader to the Imperfections of their Performances, are generally considered as meer Words of Course. Therefore without the Vanity to imagine I have no Need, I shall however omit troubling him with any such Application. Nor do I think it necessary to take up his Time with the Reasons and Motives, which have induced me to this Publication. It is to be suppos'd in a Judg∣ment of Charity, that a Writer aims at the Instruc∣tion and Good of Mankind (unless there appear strong Reasons to the Contrary) and hopes his Per∣formance is, in some Measure, calculated for that Purpose. The Subjects here touched at are, I have observ'd, lately become Matters of much Controversy; I have not been so happy as to be fully satisfied with the Publications I have seen on either Side: At least as to the Manner of treating these Points, even by such as take the Side, I apprehend to be substantially the Truth. I thereupon determin'd to renew my Examination of Matters so Important, and so interesting in our Faith and Daily Practice; and in doing so, I resolv'd simply to enquire, what appears, from the Word of God, to be the Truth on these Topicks; and as impartially as I could, examine the Weight of occurring Objections, without inter∣meddling as a Party in the present disputes. Thus I have laid none under a Necessity, nor I hope provok'd any to commence a Controversy with me. Angry Debate seldom does the Justice to Truth,

that may be expected from free dispassionate Enquiry; and in Matters of Controversy, Readers are gene∣rally more curious to observe which Combatant man∣ages his Part with