Concerning daily sacrifices and offerings


CONCERNING Daily Sacrifies and Offerings.THe Priests under the Law daily offered Sacrifices; but Christ our High Priest need not daily, as those Priests, offer Sacrifice for his own Sin, and then for the Peoples, (Heb. 7.16, 28.) For Christ did once offer up himself, who is made, not after the Law of a carnal Commandment, but after the power of an endless Life, who is set down at the Right-hand of God, and so cannot be offered as an Offering and Sacrifice any more, who abolished the changeable Priest-hood, with all its Offerings and Sacrifices, by the Sa∣crifice and Offering of himself once for all.
And so it is said, I am come to do the will of God; to take a∣way the first, namely Priest-hood and Covenant-Offerings, and establish the Second, by the which Will we are Sanctified through the Offering of the Body of Jesus, (Mark) Christs Body is offered up once for all, Heb. 9.10.
And so Christ is Entered into Heaven it self, not that he should offer himself often, as the High-Priests did, for then must Christ often have Suffered, but he hath put away Sin by the Sacrifice of himself once for all; so Christ was once offered to bear the Sins of many, and unto them that look for him, shall he appear the Second time without Sin unto Salvation, as in Heb. 9.25, 26, 28.
So here you may see Christ is not often offered up as a Sa∣crifice, or an Offering for the Sins of the whole World, then had he often Suffered: But after Christ had offered up one Sacrifice for Sins for ever, he sat down at the Right-hand of God; And by this one Offering Christ hath Perfected forever them that are Sanctified. So here you may see, it is one Offering, and one Sacrifice, once for all, not offering Christ many times, nor often.
And in Hebrews, 12.12, 14. The Priests under the Law, they offered Offerings, but Christ offered up himself, who had power to lay down his Life, and take it again, so it was not Priests that offered Christ up; for after Christ had offer∣ed up one Sacrifice and one Offering for Sins, by which Of∣fering and Sacrifice He perfected forever them that are San∣ctified, and sat down at the Right-hand of God, who ever Lives to make Intercession for his People.
And Christ saith, Offerings and Sacrifices thou wouldest not, but a Body hast thou prepared me, to do thy Will; by the which Will we are Sanctified through the offering up of the Body of Jesus Christ once for all, as before, and so he did not often offer up his Body as a Sacrifice for all, for then must he often have Suffered, as before; but now once (mark once) hath he appeared to put away Sin by the Sacrifice of himself, and not by offering or sacrificing of himself often; for as it is said, Christ having somewhat to offer, that is, he offered up himself, his Body, once for all Sins, and the daily sacrifice, and made an end of the daily Sacrifices, as in Dan. 9. Wherein you may see he caused the daily Sacrifices and Oblations to cease, when he was cut off, not