A discovrse of divers petitions of high concernment and great consequence delivered by the authour into the hands of King James, of famous memory, and into the hands of our gracious King Charles : and divers other letters delivered unto some great peers of the land and divers knights and ladies and others of great worth and quality : a treatise of melancholie and the strange effects thereof : with some directions for the comforting of poor afflicted soules and wounded consciences : and some directions for the curing and reclaiming surious mad men and some rare inventions in case of great extremity to feed them and preserve them from famishing and to procure them to speak : which it pleased the God of wisdom to enable me to finde out in the long time of fifty years experience and observation / by John Spencer, gentleman.


A DISCOVRSE Of divers PETITIONS OF HIGH Concernment, and great consequence; delive∣vered by the Authour, into the hands of King JAMES, of famous memory, and into the hands of our gracious King CHARLES; And divers other Letters delivered unto some great Peers of the Land, and divers Knights and Ladies, and others of great worth and quality. A Treatise of Melancholie, and the strange effects thereof; with some directions for the comforting of poor afflicted soules, and wounded consciences; and some directions for the curing and reclaiming furious mad men, and some rare inventions, in case of great extremity, to feed them, and preserve them from famishing, and to procure them to speak: which it pleased the God of wis∣dom to enable me to finde out in the long time of fifty years expe∣rience and observation.
By JOHN SPENCER Gentleman.
ECCLESIAST. 7.27.I have compassed about, both I and my heart, to know and quire, and search to know wisdom, and to know the wickednesse of folly, and foolishnesse of madnesse.
LONDON Printed by H. Dudley. 1461.
TO THE HIGH AND MIGHTY MONARCH CHARLES by Divine provi∣dence King of Great Brit∣taine, France and Ireland, &c.YOur Highnesse may iustly condemne this as a high presumption, to present the most eminent King in the Christian World with a discourse of Petitions and Coppies of Letters: but I have found favour in your sight when I presented them unto your highnesse upon more dangerous tearmes, and therefore I trust that blessed Lord will move your heart still to accept of the hearty desires of your poore subject, though they be not clothed with the glori∣ous ornaments of Wisdome and Eloquence, as was fit to dedicate to the view of so lear∣ned and judicious a Prince, but my comfort

is, I speake to a mercifull King, that knowes how to passe by infirmities, and to pardon great offences: and so beseeching the Lord God of heaven and earth to blesse your Highnesse with many happy dayes, long to raigne over us to heare the Petitions of your faithfull Subjects, and to redresse their wronges, craving pardon for my boldnesse, I humbly take my leave.
Devoted to your Highnesse Service, IOHN SPENCER.A DISCORSE OF