By the Lords Justices, a proclamation. Tho. Cantuar. J. Sommers C.S. Pembroke C.P.S. Shrewsbury. Whereas by an Act made the last session of Parliament, intituled, An Act for the encrease and encouragement of seamen. It was, amongst other things, enacted, that all and every able mariner, seaman, waterman, fisherman, ...


 [illustration]  [blazon or coat of arms of the British royal family] DIEV ET MON DROITW. R.HONI SOIT QVI MAL Y PENSEBy the Lords Justices, A PROCLAMATION.Tho. Cantuar. J. Sommers C. S. Pembroke C. P. S. Shrewsbury.
WHereas by an Act made the last Session of Parliament, Intituled, An Act for the Encrease and Encouragement of Seamen, It was, amongst other things, Enacted, That all and every able Mariner, Seaman, Waterman, Fisherman, Lighterman, Bargeman, Keélman, or Seafaring∣man, being a Natural Subject of this Realm, or of any of His Majesties Dominions, or be∣ing Naturalized or made a Deuizen, and above the Age of Eighteén, and under the Age of Fifty Years, and being capable of Sea Service, who should be willing to Enter himself for the Ser∣vice of His Majesty and His Successors in His or Their Fleét or Navy, should by himself or any other Person by him thereunto in Writing Authorized, give in his Christian Name and Sirname, and proper Addition, together with his Age and Place of abode, unto such Officer at the Navy Office in London, or other Place, and in such manner as should be appointed by His Majesty and His Successors; by which Registring himself, such Person will become Intituled to several great Privileges and Advantages in the said Act mentioned; And by the said Act it is provided, for the better Support of the Hospital in the said Act mentioned for the Relief of Seamen, their Widows and Children, there should be paid out of the Wages of every Seaman, Serving in any of His Majesties Ships, or in any of His Subjects Ships, Sixpence a Month, to be Collected, Levied and Recovered by such Officers, and according to such Rules as should in that behalf be appointed by the Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty; And it is provided likewise, That every Seaman, at the time of his being Registred, shall bring a Certificate of his Place of abode, under the Hands of Two Iustices of the Peace of the County or Place where he lives, and to bring a like Certificate, as often as he changes the Place of his abode, to the Register, on the Penalty of loosing the Benefit of his being Regi∣stred: Now for putting the said Act in Execution, We have thought fit, by the Advice of His Majesties Privy Council, to Issue this Proclamation, to give Notice that the Head Office for Registring Seamen according to the said Act, is kept on Tower-Hill in London, where all Persons qualified by the said Act, may Register themselves according to the Directions there∣of; and that the Collectors of His Majesties Customs in the respective Ports of this Realm (except the Port of London) are Appointed to be the Registers for the Purposes aforesaid, in their respect