The divine light of Christ in man, and his mediation truly confessed by the people called Quakers. In a brief and gentle examination of John Norris his two treatises concerning the divine light. Intended to wipe off his undue reflection of grossness and confusion on the Quakers notion of the light within. With a postscript to J. N. By G. W. a servant of Christ.


THE
DIVINE LIGHT
OF
Christ in Man,
AND HIS
MEDIATION,
Truly confessed by the
People called Quakers.
IN
A Brief and Gentle Examination of
John Norris his Two Treatises
concerning the Divine Light.
Intended to wipe off his undue Refle∣ction
of Grossness and Confusion on the
Quakers Notion of the Light within.
WITH
A POSTSCRIPT to J. N. By G. W. a Servant of Christ.
Ye believe in God, believe also in me,Jo. 14. 1.London: Printed for Thomas Northcott, in George-yard
in Lombard-street, 1692.
The Divine Light of Christ in Man
and his Mediation, truly confessed
by the People called Quakers.I Having had the opportunity lately to per∣use
two Treatises concerning the Divine
Light, wherein the same Light as it is
in Man is very much acknowledged and
confest unto by the Author, beyond many if not
most under his circumstances in our day, but
withal finding that the People called Quakers
are unduly charged by him as I apprehend, That
they do confine the Light, as to the Act of Il∣lumination,
to certain Men, or to Men of a cer∣tain
Order, namely their own Party. And that
they make the Light within to be a Creature,
yea a Material Creature, p. 23, 78, 1st Treat.
and p. 18, 2d Treat. We the said People be∣ing
thus charged so manifestly contrary to our
sincere Belief, free and open, and frequent Pro∣fession
and Testimony of and for the Divine
Light of Christ, both as it is in all Men or Man∣kind;
and as it is increated Supernatural and
Divine. This gave me occasion the more care∣fully
and narrowly to inspect the said two Trea∣tises
of the Divine Light, and to consider from
what General Doctrins or Positions as held by
the People called Quakers▪ the Author could with
any colour of reason deduce such Consequences
upon us the said People, as so confining the Act
of Illumination only to those of our own Par∣ty,
and that we make the Light within to be

but a Creature, &c. And I am sure I cannot find
any such Inferences justly deduceable upon Us
as a People, nor do I apprehend any particular
approved Writers among Us justly chargeable
therewith, their Writings on that Subject of
the Light within and Universal Grace, &c. be∣ing
duly inspected and impartially compared.
And therefore in love to the Truth and Chri∣stian
Respect and Tenderness to the Author of
the said two Treatises, (i. e. J. N.) I had a con∣cern
upon my Spirit to give him and the World
my Sentiments about the Matter objected and
charged by him, according to that measure of
Light and Understanding that God has been
pleased to give me, not to raise controversie
nor to give him or any others any real offence,
nor to cause or widen any Differences or