A voice from the temple to the higher povvers. Wherein is shewed, that it is the work and duty of saints, to search the prophesies and visions of holy Scripture, which concern the later times: and that Jesus Christ will reveal the understanding of them, neer the end of their accomplishment. And so much, is here clearly proved, and the objections to the contrary answered. Also severall prophesies are here opened, concerning the time of the end; as what is the present work of the Lord in the world: and wherein the saints (whether the higher powers or others) are now to move and follow him. Likwise [sic] what will be the work of the Lord forward, and all along from year to year, till the mysterie of God be finished, both among the Christian gentiles, and Jewes. By John Canne.


A VOICE From the Temple TO THE Hgher Povvers.
Where s shewed, that t s the work ad dty of Sats, to search the Prophe∣ses ad Vsos of holy Scrptre, whch cocer the Later Tmes: Ad that Jess Chrst wll reveal the derstadg of them, eer the ed of ther accomplshmet. Ad so mch, s here clearly proved, ad the Obje∣ctos to the cotrary aswered.
ALSO Severall Propheses are here opeed, cocerg the Tme of the Ed; As what s the preset work of the Lord  the world: Ad where the Sats (whether the Hgher Powers or others) are ow to move ad follow hm. Lke∣wse what wll be the work of the Lord forward, ad all alog from year to year, tll the Mystere of God be fshed, both amog the Chrsta Getles, ad Jewes.
By Joh Cae.
2 Pet. 3.3, 4. There shall come  the last dayes mockers, sayg, where s the promse of hs comg.
Job 21.3. Sffer me that I may speake, ad after that I have spo∣ke, mocke o.
Da. 22.10. Bt the wcked shall doe wckedly & oe of the wck∣ed shall derstad, bt the wse shall derstad.
LONDON, Prted by Matthew Smmos, ext door to the glded Lyo  Aldersgate street, 1653.
TO Hs Excellecy the Lord Geeral CROMWEL.My Lord,IT was most happly doe of Caesar, to pt the letter to hs bosome, whch he shold have read before he wet to the Cosll. I shall hmbly desre yor Excellecy ( the mdst of yor great Affares) to read over ths short Treatse, whch was teded  pblshg, specally for yo, as beg thereto ecora∣ged by yor Hoor. Had those, whose Crowes are ow falle, ad ther places have cast them ot, ot lad a∣sde Dael, ad other Propheses of the later Tmes, bt day ad ght medtated there, ad so kow the sges of the So of ma, ther glory wold ot so sooe have de∣parted from them. Bt trstg to lyg vates, they forsooke ther owe merces.
As for other Bookes of hmae wsdome ad State-pol∣ces, they are almost ow lke a old Almaack, ot of date, most mproper ad selesse to the great worke of ths age. Ad therefore sch as desre to stad, ad ot to be lost  the ght of Error ad shame, mst search the great Booke of Gods Cosell: for there they shall kow (ad o where else) what the worke s of ther owe geerato. It
s ot eogh that a ma meaes well, ad resolves to doe hoest ad jst thgs, bt he s to cosder whether the thg whch he proposeth ext to do, be hs worke, ad p