A more exact relation of the great defeat given to Gorings army in the west; by the victorious Sr. Thomas Fairfax. Sent in a letter from Captain Blackwell, to his father in London. Published according to order.


A more Exact RELATION OF THE GREAT DEFEAT GIVEN to Gorings Army in the West; By the Victorious Sr. Thomas Fairfax.
Sent in a Letter from Captain Blackwell, to his father in London.
Published according to Order.
LONDN, Printed for Henry Overton in Popes-head Alley, 1645.
A more exact relation of the great defeat given to Gorings Army in the West: by the Victorious Sr. Thomas Fairfax,Deare Father.I sent you yesterday a note wherein I ac∣quainted you in generall that Sr. Thomas Fairfax had newly routed the Kings Ar∣my, under the command of Generall Goring. Having now another oppertu∣nity of sending and more time for wri∣ting, I shall give a more large, yet a brief relation too of the particulars.
On Munday last we marcht from Crookhorne towards Ilchester, a garison of the Kings, standing upon the ri∣ver, (on the other side of which Gorings Army was drawne up) they having broken downe all the Bridges upon the river from Evill to Bridgewater, and made good the passes by parties of theirs: we faced Ilchester with our Horse about noone, and sent a small party towards the Towne to beate in their horse-guard, whereby we might the better view their workes, for we thought to have forced over the passe, Wee beate their guards in, having wounded some of them, and taken a Lieut. prisoner, but found it difficult to passe that way: whereupon we marched with our foote to Evill, 3 miles thence that night, and found that Bridge
also broke up. But the next morning earely inteli∣gence came the enemy was marched towards Glasseabu∣ry and Bristoll. Whereupon we thought to have fol∣lowed them, but our intelligence being not certaine of the way of their march, because a party of them had marched another way, and finding their garrison. viz. Ilchester quitted and burnt (the strongest part of it,) we marched thither and quartered there on Teusday night till better intelligence.
The next morning we understood they were march∣ed to Langport, (another Garrison upon the river) from whence they sent a party of horse towards Il∣mester where Major Generall Massies forces were quartered but being beaten backe and pursued neare Langport, Massie found 3 Regiments of the enemies horse turned out to grtse, which they seized upon and kept: and in the pursuite tooke divers cullours from the enemy, and endangered Gorings person very much, whilest Sr. Tho. Fairfax with his Army was on the o∣ther side the river within 3 miles of Langport, at a place called Sutton viewing the pursuit, having received in∣telligence that night of this defeate given to the enemy by Massy, the next morning the enemy were all drawne out of Langport, on that side of the river where Our quarters were, wee marched forth∣with towards them: with 7 Regiments of horse (which were all the horse on this side the