Stephen Burroughs's sermon, delivered in Rutland, on a hay mow, to his auditory the Pelhamites, at the time when a mob of them, after having pursued him to Rutland, in order to apprehend him because he had abruptly departed and absconded from Pelham, where he had been preaching the Gospel; shut him into a barn, into which he ran for asylum; when he ascended a hay-mow, which was inaccessible, except in one place, with a weapon of defence in his hand, with which he kept off his pursuers at pleasure, as mentioned in the author's Memoirs, p. 90, 91, and delivered to them the following sermon, on the occasion.


STEPHEN BURROUGHS's SERMON, DELIVERED IN Rutland, ON A HAY MOW,To HIS AUDITORY the Pelhamites, at the time when a mob of them, after having pursued him to Rutland, in order to appre|hend him because he had abruptly departed and absconded from Pelham, where he had been preaching the gospel; shut him into a barn, into which he ran for asylum; when he ascended a hay-mow, which was inaccessible, except in one place, with a weapon of defence in his hand, with which he kept off his pursuers at pleasure, as men|tioned in the Author's Memoirs, P. 90, 91, and delivered to them the following Sermon, on the occasion.
THE HAY-MOW SERMON, &c.IN Those days, the Pelhamites being gathered together, from the east and from the west, from the north and from the south; Stephen the Burronite, being the Prophet of Pelham, ascended the hay-mow, and lifted up his voice, saying, "hear ye the voice of the Lord which crieth against the Pelhamites—for the anger of the Lord smoaketh with furious indignation against you, for the follies, which you committed against the Lord, and against his anointed. For verily, saith the Lord, I have given you my prophets, rising up early, and send|ing them: But the first you soon rejected: —The second, on account of your cruel|ty, I took to myself:—The third: you drove away with great wrath, and pursued with great rage, malignity, and uproar."— "Then," said the Lord "I will give them

a Minister like unto themselves, full of all deceit, hypocrisy, and duplicity. But, whom, among all the sons of men, shall I send?" Then came there fourth a lying spirit, and stood before the Lord, saying, "I will go forth, and be a spirit in the mouth of Stephen the Burronite." And the Lord said "go"—Then arose up Ste|phen the Burronite, of the tribe of the Pu|ritans, and family of Ishmael, and went forth to Pelham, sorely oppressing the Pel|hamites, taking from them ten shekels of silver, a mighty fine horse, and changes of raiment, and ran off to Rutland.
Then the Pelhamites were moved with rage, like the moving of the trees of the forest by a mighty tempest, and gathered themselves together, and pursued their Prophet down to Rutland. And now, I your prophet and minister, being ascended on the hay-mow, declare unto you, that I see an angel flying through heaven, crying "wo! wo! wo! to the Pelhamites. The first wo is past, but behold two other woes shall