The copie of an epistle sent by Iohn Knox one of the ministers of the Englishe Church at Geneua vnto the inhabitants of Newcastle, & Barwike. In the end wherof is added a briefe exhortation to England for the spedie imbrasing of Christes gospel hertofore suppressed & banished.


THE COPIE OF AN EPISTLE SENT BY IOHN KNOX ONE OF the Ministers of the Eng∣lishe Church at Gene∣ua vnto the inha∣bitants of Newcastle, & Barwike.
In ••e end wherof is added a briefe ex∣hortation to England for the spe∣die imbrasing of Christes Gospel hertofore suppressed & banished.
MATTH. CHAP. VII.•uerie tree, which bringethe not fourthe good frute, is hewne downe, and cast into the fyer.
AT GENEVA. M.D.LIX.
MATH. x.ƲƲho so euer shal confesse me before men, him wil I confesse also before my father whiche is in heauen: but who soeuer shal denie me before men, him wil I also denye before my fa∣ther whiche is in heauen.
••hn Knox to the inhabitantes of N•wcas•le ād Barwike and vnto ••her who sometyme in the Realme •nglande prof•ssed Christ Iesus, ād 〈◊〉 be returned to the bondage of 〈◊〉, wisheth true, and earnestre∣•ancely the powre and operation •at same spirite, who called from •he Iesus the onely pastour of our 〈◊〉.IF the reason of man shalbe called to iudg what frute ensuethe the payneful trauail of Gods most faith∣••ll seruantes, who at his com∣•andement studie to repayre his •itie, and to purge his temple, ••t onely shal their labours be •stemed for a tyme to be vainly •pent, but skarsely shal the wis∣dome of God throughe mans •ashe iudgement escape condem∣nation, nether shal the veritie of

his promesses be free frome sus∣pition of falsehod and vanitie. For to mans reason nothing ap∣peareth more absurde, folishe nor vnreasonable, then yt God (whose powre no creature is able to re∣sist) shal send fourth his messin∣gers to performe his worke and wil, and that the same shalbe so impugned, that their building in their owne eyes shalbe ouerthrow¦ne, and destroyed, and that the natural man can not se how the promesses of Christ Iesus, made to his Apostles, and vnder their names to all true preachers of his holy Gospel, in these wordes can be prouen constant, and true. I haue (saith he) appointed you to go and to bring fourthe frute, & that your frute shal abyde. The stabilitie and truth (I say) of this promesse dothe not sodenly ap∣peare, but rather the playne con∣trary. For if the frute of the Gos∣pel

and glad tydinges preached be first in this lyfe the glorye of God (I meane such good workes as may declare the spirite of re∣generation) shining in man af∣ter that he be planted in Christ Iesus, and after this battel the ioy prepared for Gods children: if these (I say) be the frutes of Christ Iesus preached, then appeare the most parte of trees to be destroy∣ed before the tyme of frute do∣the approche. For some by tyran∣nie and violence are rooted out frome the societie of earthely creatures before they beginne to florish, & so is their frute to mās iudgement impeaded a