The weavers pocket-book, or, Weaving spiritualized in a discourse wherein men employed in that occupation are instructed how to raise heavenly meditations from the several parts of their work : to which also are added some few moral and spiritual observations relating both to that and other trades / by J.C.


THE Weavers POCKET-BOOK: OR, Weaving Spiritualized.
In a Discourse, wherein Men employed in that Occupation, are instructed how to raise Heaven∣ly Meditations, from the several parts of their Work.
To which also are added some few Moral and Spiritual Observations, relating both to that and other Trades.
By J. C. D. D.
Promissio Sanctificat omnia, et reddit pretiosa in conspectu Dei; neque quicquam tam minutum fieri potest, in vocatione Divinitas ordinata, quin Deo placeat. Luther. T. 4. in Gen. in c. 46.
Job. 7.6. My days are swifter than a Weavers Shuttle.
Isa. 38.12. I have cut off like a Weaver my Life.
Printed in the Year, 1695.
To his Honoured Friends, Bernard Church Esq; and John Richars Gentleman, Aldermen of the Ci∣ty of Norwich.Worthy and much Honoured Friends,THE design of the following sheets will be so obvious to every Eye upon the reading of them, that ma∣ny words to expound it to you will be perfectly superflous; it will easi∣ly be its own interpreter both to you & others besides: what is need∣ful upon that Subject I shall more fully discourse in my Epistle unto the Reader. My business to you is, but to give you an account of my Entituling you unto it. For which it were enough to say. That God hath so blessed you both in that occu∣pation which I make the Theme of
 the following discourses, as that it hath brought you in not only a Livelihood, but such an Overplus as hath capacitated you not only to serve your Generation, in the Offices relating to and the principal Conduct of that Trade, but in other great Employments: The one of you hath not only served the City, wherein you are, in the Offices of Sheriff and Alderman (that you both have done) but also in the Office of Mayor (and that the other too hath not don• the same is only from his own Reluctancy) and also represent∣ed this famous City in the Highest Court of parliament. But also, be∣cause you are great Examples of that Piety, Sobriety, and Goodness of Temper, to which (as you will find I have in the following sheets obser∣ved)
 this course of Life in mens youth doth much tutour, and dis∣pose them, and in being, or having been the heads and conductors of all that are busied in that Oc∣cupation, you have Entitutled your selves to all those Discourses which may tend to the Moral or Spiri∣ual Improvements of it. You will by the following discourses see, you have no reason to reflect with any blushing, upon the way in which you were in your youth trained up; you have eminently served your Generation before you fall asleep. The employment of your Lives hath not been a making Silver∣shrines for Diana; it hath not been a service to the Luxury, Pride and Wantoness of the Generat