A sermon preached before the King & Queen at White-Hall, on Christmas-Day, 1689 by the Right Reverend Father in God, Gilbert, Lord Bishop of Sarum.


PRINTED By Their Majesties Special Command.
A SERMON Preached before the KING & QUEEN, At WHITE-HALL, ON CHRISTMAS-DAY, 1689.
By the Right Reverend Father in God, GILBERT Lord Bishop of SARUM.
LONDON, Printed for Richard Thiswell, at the Rose and Crown in St. Paul's Church-Yard, MDC •XC.
THE BISHOP of SALISBURY's
Sermon before the KING and QUEEN ON CHRISTMAS-DAY, 1689.
〈1 page duplicate〉〈1 page duplicate〉A SERMON Preached before the KING and QUEEN, &c.1 TIM. III. VER. 16.And without controversie, great is the mystery of godliness: God was manifest in the flesh, justified in the spirit, seen of Angels, preached unto the Gentiles, believed on in the world, and receive up into glory.THE most venerable part of Re∣ligion consists in the Mysteries it contains: and the more sacred and sublime that these are, the Reli∣gion to which they belong, becomes thereby so much the more August. The minds of Men are subject to two extreams in the matter of Mysteries: some have such a liking for every thing that pretends to Mystery, that this alone serves to recommend all things to

them; and as if Religion were designed to give perpetual affronts to Reason, they de∣spise things that are intelligible, and think it is a Character of a mean and con∣temptible Religion, if it is not full of un∣accountable things: and they seem to be so taken with a sickness after Mystery, that the more absurd that any Doctrines are, they like them the better: this serving to gild or sweeten the Pill: and perhaps they think that a fond credulity will atone for all other faults; as if an easiness of believing might serve to compound for the most hainous sins. But on the other hand, some have such thoughts of themselves, and of the force and compass of their own Reasons, that they think it an unreasonable imposing on them to expect that they should believe any thing which they can∣not quite comprehend.
The Mean between these, is to fix such sure measures in this matter as may preserve us both from a tameness, that may expose us to be an easie Prey to every one that will force perswasions on us, with this bugbear, that they are Mysteries, and that therefore they ought to be believed, even before they are examined: and also on the other hand, from such a swelling of pride, as to reject every

thing how solemnly soever attested, only be∣cause it does not agree with our Notions. We have St. Paul here in my Text concluding a charge that he had given to Timothy, and in him to all that should minister in holy things, that he should from the Rules here set him, learn how he ought to behave him∣self in the Church of God: for since the World that is ever apt to be implicit in its thoughts of Religion, will judge of that which they do not know, nor understand, I mean the Do∣ctrine, from that which they do see and know, I mean the lives of those who do t