An enquiry after truth and righteousness, and after the people whom the Lord establisheth and will establish therein in some queries on Isa. 58, and also on chapter 54.


AN ENQUIRY AFTER Truth and Righteousness, And after the People whom the Lord Establisheth and will Establish there∣in, in some Queries on Isa. 58. and also on Chapter 54.Query 1. ARe there any people to be found, who exceed that state spoken of vers. 2. of seeking God daily, and delighting to know his wayes, as a Nation that did Righteousness, and forsook not the Ordinance of their God? They ask of me said the Lord the Ordinances of Justice, they take delight in approaching to God. Are there not ma∣ny Professions and sorts of Professors at this day, who in Gods sight fall short of this state, and yet think highly of themselves? yet these the Prophet of the Lord was not to spare, but to lift up his Voice like a Trumpet against them, because of their Trans∣gression and Sin which they committed, notwithstanding their thus daily seeking the Lord.
Quer. 2. What was the Transgression and the Sins which the Prophet was not to spare them in, but lift up his Voice like a Trumpet against them for? Was it not (among other things) for their wrong fasting, their wrong afflicting their Souls, their wrong seeking of God, out of the meek, tender, merciful

spirit? Doth God require such fasting or praying of any man? or will the Lord accept such fasting or praying at any mans hand? Ah how many fast and pray at this day, who never rightly considered nor truly understood what the fastings and what the prayers are, which God requireth, and which alone he will accept?
Quer. 3. What is the fast which God requireth, and will ac∣cept in all Ages? Is not this it, To loose the bands of wickedness, to undo the heavy burdens, to let the oppressed go free; to break every yoke &c. ver. 6.7. Who can understand or learn the fast, but he that is taught of God?
Quer. 4. Are there any, whose light breaks forth as the morning, and whose health springs forth speedily; and whose righteousness goeth before them, and whom the glory of the Lord gathereth up, or is a Rereward to (as is promised to those who observe this fast) and whom the Lord is ready to hear and answer in all that they call upon him for, as ver. 8.9? Doth not God teach his Children in the new Covenant to observe this fast? And they who are taught by him to keep it (and do faithful∣ly keep it) do they not inherit this Promise?
Quer. 5. Are there any now among the Sons of men, whose light hath risen in obscurity, and whose darkness hath become as noon-day? Whom the Lord guideth continually, and whose Soul he satisfieth in Droughts, and makes fat their bones: And makes them like a watered garden, and like a spring of water, whose Waters fail not? Surely if there be any, who are truly taught of the Lord to observe that which leads hereto, they cannot miss of enioying these precious promises: For he is faithful and true who hath promised. (vers. 10, 11.)
Q