The American crisis. Number II. By the author of Common sense.


THE American CRISIS. NUMBER II.
BY THE AUTHOR OF COMMON SENSE.
PHILADELPHIA: Printed and Sold by STYNER and CIST, in Second-street, six doors above Arch-street.
[Price Four-pence single; or One Third of a Dollar per dozen.]
Where also may be had No. I. [Price Two-pence.]
TO LORD HOWE."What's in the name of LORD that I should fear,
"To bring my grievance to the public ear.
CHURCHILL.UNIVERSAL empire is the prerogative of a writer. His concerns are with all mankind, and though he cannot command their obedience, he can assign them their duty. The Republic of Letters is more ancient than monarchy, and of far higher character in the world than the vassal court of Britain; he that re∣bels against reason is a real rebel, but he that in defence of reason, rebels against tyranny, has a better title to "DE∣FENDER OF THE FAITH" than George the Third.
AS a military man your Lordship may hold out the sword of war, and call it the "ULTIMA RATIO RE∣GUM:" The last Reason of Kings; we in return can show you the sword of justice, and call it, The best Scourge of Tyrants. The first of these two may threaten, or even frighten, for a while, and cast a sickly languor over an insulted people, but reason will soon recover the de∣bauch, and restore them again to tranquil fortitude. Your Lordship, I find, has now commenced author and pub∣lished a proclamation; I too have published a crisis; as they stand, they are the antipodes of each other; both can∣not rise at once, and one of them must descend: And so quick is the revolution of things, that your Lordship's performance, I see, has already fallen many degrees from its first place, and is now just visible on the edge of the political horizon.
IT is surprising to what pitch of infatuation blind folly and obstinacy will carry mankind, and your Lordship's drowsy proclamation is a proof that it does not even quit them in their sleep. Perhaps you thought America too was taking a nap, and therefore, chose, like satan to Eve, to whisper the delusion softly, lest you should awaken her.

This Continent, Sir, is too extensive to sleep all at once, and too watchful, even in its slumbers, not to startle at the unhallowed foot of an invader. You may issue your proclamations, and welcome, for we have learned to "re∣verence ourselves" and scorn the insulting ruffian that em∣ploys you. America for your deceased brother's sake would gladly have shown you respect, and it is a new aggravation to her feelings that Howe should be forgetful, and raise his sword against those, who at their own charge raised a mo∣nument to his brother. But your master has commanded, and you have not enough of nature left to refuse. Surely! there must be something strangely degenerating in the love of monarchy, that can so completely wear a man down to an ingrate, and make him proud to lick the dust that kings have trod upon. A few more years, should you survive them, will bestow on you the title o