Ways and means for the inhabitants of Delaware to become rich: wherein the several growths and products of these countries are demonstrated to be a sufficient fund for a flourishing trade. : Humbly submitted to the legislative authority of these colonies. : [One line in Latin]


WAYS and MEANS For the Inhabitants of DELAWARE To become RICH: WHEREIN The several Growths and Products of these COUNTRIES are demon|strated to be a sufficient Fund for a flou|rishing TRADE.
Humbly submitted to the Legislative Au|thority of these Colonies.
Nemo seipsum natus est.
Prnited and sold by S. Keimer, in Phila+delphia. MDCCXXV.
THE INTRODUCTION.AS Trade is a noble Subject very copious, so it deserves a better Genius and Capacity than I am Master of, to discourse of the several Branches thereof.
But some ingenious and well meaning Persons having employ'd their Pens that way, from the generous Motives and Views of promoting the publick Good, I perswade my self 'tis a good Omen and Presage of the future Happiness of a Country, especially when it appears in private Persons, who for the most Part may be presum'd to be free from the By|ass of sinister Interest; whereas publi•k Projectors, under the specious Pretences of publick Spiritedness and Promotion of Trade, secretly carry on their private Interest, without any true Regard to the

Publick, and which they too often sacri+fice, to the great Damage, if not Ruin thereof.
But since nothing of what has been wrote on this Subject, has been so publick and common as is necessary to render it of publick Service and Advantage; and considering Trade is of the last Impor|tance to the Good and Prosperity of any Country, and how much it has languish'd for divers Years past in the Colonies ly|ing on Delaware; insomuch that Trade not only sunk, but most of the middling People, and divers good House-keepers, as well as the inferiour Rank labour'd under inextricable Difficulties, Silver and Gold the only Legal Currency, being almost totally exhausted, or kept up, that thro' the Scarcity thereof, the Farmer to pay a D•bt was forc'd to sell twice as much as he needed to come at Silver, and take one part in such Goods as he did not want, till at last scarce any Money could be come at, to answer his Occasi|ons, much less to pay his Debts, or dis|charge the Incumbrance great Numbers

of Estates lay under; all Credit private and publick, being •unk.
And that this is not a groundless Sug|gestion, or a Misrepresentation of the State of the Country; but a Truth known to all who saw the late deplora|ble Condition of these Colonies compa|red to what they were some Years past. When Grain bore a Price, the Farmer cou'd live by his Labour, the Tradesman, the Artificer and the Merchant encreased in Wealth and got Estates, what Colony then on the Continent of America of better Credit and more punctual in their Dealing? but since Husbandry the Foun|dation of our Trade has been so fatally discouraged by the low Price of Grain, and our Currency, the