An oration, pronounced in the Baptist Meeting-House, in Providence, on the anniversary of American independence, July 4, 1800. / By Jonathan Russell, Esq.


AN ORATION, PRONOUNCED IN THE Baptist Meeting-House, IN PROVIDENCE, ON THE ANNIVERSARY OF AMERICAN INDEPENDENCE, JULY 4, 1800.
BY JONATHAN RUSSELL, ESQ.
PROVIDENCE: PRINTED BY BENNETT WHEELER. 1800.
AN ORATION.IT is a magnificent spectacle to be|hold a great people annually crouding their temples to consecrate the anniversary of their sovereignty. On this occasion the heart of every true American beats high with a just and noble pride. He still hears the illustrious Fa|thers of his Country, appealing to the Supreme Judge of the World for the rectitude of their con|duct, declare that the United States "are, and of right ought to be, Free and Independent." The black catalogue of injury, abuse, contempt and crime, which exhausted forbearance and drove us to resistance, rushes on his mind. He passes in review those great men who then burst upon the world, and who, endowed with every virtue and every talent which could fit them for the arduous task in which they engaged, appeared to be expressly commission|ed by Heaven to rule the storm of revolution. It was then indeed that human nature, which for eigh|teen centuries had appeared nearly to have lost those qualities which alone ennoble it, emerged at once

from its degradation and recovered the lustre with which it shone in the happiest days of antiquity.
On the islands of the Adriatic, the mountains of Biscay, and the rocks of Uri, the spirit of Liberty had indeed successfully sought a refuge, but driven at last, from all that could delight her on earth, she had already flapped her wings on the glaciers of Switzer|land, and was taking her flight towards Heaven— The American people rose—they burst their fetters —they hurled them at their oppressors—they shout|ted they were free—The sound broke across the Atlantic—it shook the fog-wrapt island of Britain, and re-echoed along the Alps. The ascending spi|rit heard it—she recognized in it the voice of her e|lect, and holding her course westward, she rejoicing saw her incense rise from a thousand altars. Her presence assured our triumph. Painful however was the struggle and terrible the conflict which ob|tained that triumph—our harbours filled with hos|tile fleets—our fields ravaged—our cities wrapt in flames—a numerous, veteran and unprincipled en|emy let loose upon us—our army thinned by battles —wasted by sickness—disgusted by treachery and desertion—a prey to every species of privation and reduced to the last misery next despair—Even then, however, this little army showed themselves worthy the holy cause for which they contended. Driven from Long-Island—from the heights of Harlem—from White Plains—pursued from post to post even to beyond the Delaware—they would often turn upon their insulting foe—and min|gling their blood with the melting lava of the can|non's mouth, foretel them of Trenton, German