Batman vppon Bartholome his booke De proprietatibus rerum, newly corrected, enlarged and amended: with such additions as are requisite, vnto euery seuerall booke: taken foorth of the most approued authors, the like heretofore not translated in English. Profitable for all estates, as well for the benefite of the mind as the bodie. 1582.


 [illustration] 
 [illustration] HONI·SOIT QVI MAL·Y PENCEBATMAN vppon Bartholome, His Booke De Proprietatibus Rerum, Newly corrected, enlarged and amended: with such Additions as are requi∣site, vnto euery seuerall Booke:Taken foorth of the most approued Authors, the like here∣tofore not translated in English.Profitable for all Estates, as well for the benefite of the Mind as the Bodie. 1582.LONDON Imprinted by Thomas East, dwel∣ling by Paules wharfe.
 [illustration] CONSERVA ME DOMINE
THe Bat vnknowne, yet this his natiue soyle,
And beares, that Parentes had, by Martiall prowesse toyle,
From Swoll as may appeare, of Germane race in deede,
By Emprour Charels he, that gaue each one his meede.
The Moone increasing showes, that Iustice (aye) must grow
And AEgles winges, of white, and red, the Lawes to vse below,
The mecke and milde to guide, the wicked to displaie,
As heretofore (when vertue shall) restore that did decaie,
The Starres, triangled set, declares not one, but all,
Should know their Prince, their Land, their Frend, least ouer soone they fall.
The Shield of glittering Gold, reportes a Gift of Grace,
And Starres aboue the Moone, foretells some noble race:
So borne in one Field, as the Athuauncer will
By light of light, (euen God aboue) whose powre continueth still.
¶TO THE RIGHT HONOVRA∣BLE Lord, Henrie Cary, of the most noble order of the Garter Knight, Baron of Hunsdon, gouernour of the Queenes Maie∣sties towne of Barwicke, & Lord Warden of the East Marches of England, anemptest Scotland, & one of the Queenes maiesties honorable Counsaile, his singular good Lord: Stephan Batman wisheth; the feruent zeale of Gods truth, and long continuaunce of prospe∣rous health, vvith the increase of much honour.THE prudent and most wise king of the world, Solomon, in his Pro∣uerbs, among many sentences of profound sapience, saith, that those which be wise shal haue honor in possession: Also that the prosperity of the right Honourable shall not decay, because they shall be had in an euerlasting remembraunce, O happie birth wherevnto many are borne, to double honour: among men on Earth, among Angells in Heauen. Seeing therefore that wisdome is the onely preferrour to honour, how much is he, to be had in speciall reuerence, who in very deed sayth. I Wisdome dwell with Counsaile, and find out Knowledge and Vnderstanding. By me Princes reigne, beare rule, and Noble men doe iudge the Earth, I haue bene from euerlasting, I was before the foundations were laide, therefore harken vnto me: Doe iustice, heare the oppressed, defend the innocent, forget not to doe good to al men, but specially to those, that are of the householde