The Lord Byrons First articles presented to Sir William Brereton before the surrender of the city of Chester vvherein the great ambition of that party doth appear ...


The Lord Byrons FIRST ARTICLES Presented to Sir William Brereton BEFORE The Surrender of the City OF CHESTER: Wherein the great Ambition of that party doth appear, And as by the last Articles whereunto he subscribed is to be seen at large.
LONDON: Printed by Iohn Field, Feb. 10. 1645.
The Lord Byrons first Articles presented to Sir William Brereton.1. THat my self, all Noblemen, Commanders, Officers, Gen∣tlemen and Souldiers, of Horse or Foot, that do or have served His Majesty or Parliament in England or elsewhere; and likewise all persons whatsoever now residing here in this City of Chester, Castle and Fort thereof, of what Nation, Countrey or Re∣ligion soever, shall have liberty to march away out of the said City, Castle, and Fort, with their compleat Arms, Colours flying, Drums beating, Trumpets sounding, their Pistols and Carbines in their hands, Swords drawn, Matches lighted at both end, Bullets in their mouths, each man a pound of Powder, Bullet and Match propor∣tionable, in their rank and form, as they used to march in Batalia, with their Goods, Bag and Baggage, to any of His Majesties Ar∣mies or Garrisons as I shall desire: And that such of the City Re∣giment under the command of Sir Francis Gunnell as are minded to stay in the City, be suffered so to do, and enjoy their Arms and Goods, and all such priviledges as are in the several Articles pro∣posed for the Citizens.
2. That neither my person, nor the person of any Nobleman, Commander, Officer, Gentlemen or Souldier, or any other, mine or any of their Servants or Retinues, be searched, molested or troubled upon any pretence whatsoever, but left with their liberties to march with their Arms or stay, as seems most convenient to them.
3. That none of your Army whatsoever shall entice or per∣swade any Officer or Souldier under my command from their mind or colours, with any promise of preferment, or reward or any other inducement.
4. That no person comprised in these Articles shall in their March, Rendezvouz, or Quarters, be stript, searched or plundred upon any pretence whatsoever.
5. That I have with me two pieces of brasse Canon out of the City, the other out of the Fort, and one case of Drakes, with their train and equipage, and Ammunition sufficient to discharge each Canon twelve times, and also ten Barrels of Powder, with Bullet and Match proportionable.

6. That all Officers and Souldiers of what quality or condition soever they are, sick or hurt in the Hospital or elsewhere in the Garrison, shall have liberty to stay till they shall be recovered, and then have Pass and safe conduct to go to any His Majesties Armies or Garrisons, or their own houses or friends, where they may be quiet, as shall be by them or any of them required, and in the mean time to be provided for and protected by you and have civil usage.
7. Th