A true experimentall and exact relation upon that famous and renovvned siege of Nevvcastle, the diverse conflicts and occurrances fell out there during the time of ten weeks and odde dayes: and of that mightie and marveilous storming therof, with power, policie, and prudent plots of warre. Together with a succinct commentarie upon the battell of Bowdon Hill, and that victorious battell of York or Marston Moore, never to be forgotten. / By him who was an eye witnesse to the siege of Nevvcastle, William Lithgovv.


A TRUE EXPERIMENTALL AND EXACT RELATION UPON That famous and renovvned Siege OF NEW CASTLE, The diverse conflicts and occurrances fell out there during the time of ten weeks and odde dayes: And of that mightie and marveilous storming thereof, with Power, Policie, and prudent plots of Warre.
Together with a succinct commentarie upon the Battell of Bowdon Hill, and that victorious battell of York or Marston Moore, never to bee forgotten.
By him who was an eye witnesse to the siege of NEVVCASTLE, WILLIAM LITHGOVV.
EDINBURGH, Printed by ROBERT BRYSON. 1645.
Cum Privilegio.
A just and exact discourse, upon the Siege and Storming of NEVVCASTLE, with a succinct commentarie upon the two Battells of BOVVDON Hill and MARSTON Moore.IN these turbulent times, when opinions grow variable, and the diversity of doubtfull reports more voluble than the rushing winde; yet have I adventured (like to an old practicioner, in Prose, Poesie, and unparalelled peregrination) to cast in my Myte of known Experience, upon the Brazen faces of ignorant under∣standers, that with the knowledge of my quotidian inspection, I may either enlighten their blindesse, or give truth the glory of a just deserving. And why? because now too too many calumnious Criticks, being more prone to censure other mens labours, then to do any thing themselves worthie of censure, yet dare to upbraid that which hardly their sinistruous judgement can rightly construct. The world being turned to such a crabbed and crooked condition, that either they will approve what they conceive, though never so erronious, or otherwise disprove that

which they affect not, though never so illustrious. Wherefore damnifying the one, and villifying the other I come to court my present purpose; and thus I begin▪
This long cross'd labour, now it comes to light,
And I, and my discourse set in my▪ right,
Which reason craved; for where can truth prevaile,
But where sound judgement may it countervaile.
For what seek I? in what these times afford,
But of my Countries praise, a just record,
Which God allows; and what can contraires bring,
But man for men, the light of truth may sing,
Else after ages would be borne as blinde,
As though our time, had come their time behinde:
For curious Penmen, and the Paper Scroule,
They are of memorie, the life and soule.
After our first Army (levyed in the hollow time of Winter, 1644 and led by the Earl of Leven Lord General) had with certain oppo∣sitions recoursed over Tyne, and thence