Master Glyn's reply to the Earle of Straffords defence of the severall articles objected against him by the House of Commons Published by speciall direction, out of an authentick copy.


Master Glyns REPLY TO THE EARLE OF STRAFFORDS DEFENCE OF The severall Articles objected against him by the House of COMMONS.
Published by speciall direction, out of an authentick Copy.
LONDON, Printed for Lawrence Chapman, Anno 1641.
Master GLYNS Reply to the Earle of STRAFFORDS Defence.My Lord of Strafford having concluded the recapitu∣lation of his evidence, Mr. Glyn applied himselfe to their Lordships in manner following.MAy it please your Lordships, my Lord of Strafford (as your Lordships have ob∣served,) hath spent a great deale of time in his evidence, and in his course of an∣swering hath inverted the order of the Articles; He hath spent some time, likewise, in defen∣ding the Articles not objected against him, wherein he hath made a good answer, if in any: wee shall pre∣sume to withdraw a while, and rest upon your Lord∣ships patience; and I doubt not but to represent my Lord of Strafford as cunning in his answer, as hee is subtill in his practice.
The Committee withdrawing for about the space of halfe an houre, and then returning to the Barre, Mr. Glyn proceeded as followeth.
My Lords, your Lordships have observed how the Earle of Strafford hath been accused by the Com∣mons of England of high Treason, for a purpose and de∣signe to subvert the fundamentall Lawes of both the kingdomes, of England and Ireland, and to introducean Arbitrary, and Tyrannicall government: The Commons have exhibited Articles in maintenance of that charge: My Lord of Strafford hath thereunto an∣swered in writing. The Commons have proceeded to make good their charge by proofe, and thereunto my Lord of Strafford hath made his defence; and this day my Lord of Strafford hath taken upon him to recollect his evidence, and make his observation upon it, the most he could to his advantage.
My Lords, wee that are intrusted for the house of Commons, stand here to recollect the evidence on our part, and to apply it to the generall charge, and how farre it conduces thereunto.
My Lord of Strafford in recollecting the evidence of his defence, as I did mention before, hath (under favour) exprest very much subtilty, and that in divers particulars, which I shall represent to your Lordships.
My Lords, before I enter upon the recollection of the proofes produced on the behalf of the Commons, I shall make some observations, and give some answer to that recollection of his; though very disorderly to the method I propounded to my selfe.
And first, in generall, it will appeare to your Lord∣ships, (looking upon your notes, and observing his re∣collection) that he hath used the repetition of evidence on both sides, in such manner as you know who useth Scripture; that is, to cite as much as makes for his purpose, & leave out the rest. And likewise, that in re∣petition of the evidence, he hat• mis-recited, plai