An essay, concerning critical and curious learning in which are contained some short reflections on the controversie betwixt Sir William Temple and Mr. Wotton, and that betwixt Dr. Bentley and Mr. Boyl / by T.R. Esq.


AN ESSAY, Concerning Critical and Curious Learning: In which are contained Some Short Reflections on the Controversie betwixt Sir WILLIAM TEMPLE AND Mr. WOTTON; And that betwixt Dr. BENTLEY AND Mr. BOYL.
By T. R. Esq
LONDON, Printed for R. Cumberland at the Angel in St. Pauls Church-yard. 1698.
AN ESSAY, Concerning CRITICAL AND Curious Learning.SIR,IF I am at all capable of un∣dertaking your Commands, it is wholly owing to the Advantage of that Converse you

have for some time Honoured me with: But would you be prevailed upon, to lay aside your Authority over me, I could assign the Province to a much more skilfull Hand; I could wish you would rather have Instructed me your-self upon those Points you have offered to my Consideration, than to exact the little I am able to say up∣on them. However, in order to begin that Correspondence betwixt us, which your Letter so kindly proposes, and which is so much for my own Bene∣fit; I will here give my Im∣perfect Thoughts upon your first Question, viz.Whether Critical and Cu∣rious Enquiries are re∣ally Conducive to the ad∣vancement of solid and useful Learning, or not?
together with my Opinion in general of the Controversie be∣twixt Sir William Temple and Mr. Wotton, and that betwixt Dr. Bentley and Mr. Boyl. This I shall only do, so far as it will come within the Compass and Form of a Letter; for I am not at all inclined to engage in a set Methodical Discourse.
Tho' the Negative side of this Question may hold very well, if applyed to some super∣ficial Wits and pretended Virtuosi
in the World; yet it can never be supported against those learn∣ed Antients and Moderns, that are justly distinguished by the Name of Criticks. For to them we owe what is truly Curious and Entertaining in Philosophy; and to them we must attribute all those admirable Refinements in the Liberal Arts and Sciences. For had not the Censors of for∣mer Times been able, by their great Knowledge of Nature and Reason, to refute the many crude indigested Hypotheses, which fre∣quently were advanced in Athens and Rome; what whimsical In∣ventions had Sophisters imposed upon the more unletter'd sort of People, and transmitted down to Posterity, for rare Systems and unusual heights in Philoso∣phy? and had not the Criticks

of latter Ages, when Learning after a long and dark Interval began to dawn and revive again in Europe, been very industrious in Publishing correct Editions of antient Books, and putting Mo∣dern Authors upon great Care and exactness in their Writings, that they might at last restore Letters to the World, we had not at this day seen Learning in so flourishing a Condition, nor so many Academies, and places of Polite Literature, where Men are wholly set apart for the Cultivation of Knowledge.
There are indeed some Stu