The artists assistant in drawing, perspective, etching, engraving, mezzotinto-scraping, painting on glass, in crayons, in water-colours, and on silks and sattins. The art of jappaning, &c. Containing the easiest and most comprehensive rules for the attainment of those truly useful and polite arts, methodically digested, and adapted to the capacities of young beginners. : Illustrated with suitable examples engraved on copper.


THE ARTISTS ASSISTANT IN
DRAWING,PERSPECTIVE,ETCHING,ENGRAVING,MEZZOTINTO-SCRAPING,PAINTING on GLASS, in CRAYONS, in WATER-CO|LOURS, and on SILKS and SATTINS.The ART of JAPAN|NING, &c.
CONTAINING 〈◊〉 Easiest and most Comprehensive Rules For the attainment of those truly USEFUL and POLITE ARTS, Methodically digested, and adapted to the Capacities of YOUNG BEGINNERS. ILLUSTRATED WITH 〈◊〉 EXAMPLES engraved on Copper.
THE SIXTH EDITION improved.
PHILADELPHIA: 〈◊〉 by Benjamin Johnson, No 147, for Benjamin Davies, No 68, MARKET-STREET. M, DCC, XCIV.
PREFACE.IT has ever been the misfortune of those who have professed to lay down rules for the attainment of any art or science, to leave them enveloped with difficulties, which, if not utterly insuperable, at least discourage the lear|ner from proceeding in a study which he can have little hopes will ever reward his pursuit.
From hence we may reasonably infer, that the said professors were totally unacquainted, if not with the theory at least with the practi|cal part of what they undertook to teach others; and that the instructions they have given were founded rather upon a bare supposition of their efficacy, than upon the surer basis of long and repeated experience, which alone could have insured their success, and from which, with all due deference to the judicious (whose sanc|tion we shall at all times be ambitious to de|serve,) we may venture to answer for the prac|ticability of our own.
To obviate every objection, and to remove all those difficulties which had so long blocked up the path of science, and retarded, if not wholy impeded the pupil in his progress to the temple of fame, was the chief veiw in com|piling the subsequent little treatise.
Over and above the improvements made in illustrating the several arts hitherto so imper|fectly and unintelligibly explained we have introduced directions for scraping in mezzo|tinto, which in this edition, are still further en|larged, and which, as they have never been be|fore attempted in any book of this kind we flatter ourselves will be the more acceptable; especially when it shall appear from the rules laid down for the performance of this art, that it is so easy to be attained, that a tolerable pro|ficiency in drawing will enable any one to un|kertake it with all imaginable prospect of suc|cess.
The reader will also find, in this impression, the addition of a very useful problem, in the article of perspective illustrated by a new plate, and one additional plate of flowers and sprigs, for the instruction of young Ladies who have a tas