The English myrror A regard wherein al estates may behold the conquests of enuy: containing ruine of common weales, murther of princes, cause of heresies, and in all ages, spoile of deuine and humane blessings, vnto which is adioyned, enuy conquered by vertues. Publishing the peaceable victories obtained by the Queenes most excellent Maiesty, against this mortall enimie of publike peace and prosperitie, and lastly a fortris against enuy, builded vpon the counsels of sacred Scripture, lawes of sage philosophers, and pollicies of well gouerned common weales: wherein euery estate may see the dignities, the true office and cause of disgrace of his vocation. A worke safely, and necessarie to be read of euerie good subiect. By George Whetstones Gent. Seene and allowed.


The English Myrror.
A REGARD Wherein al estates may behold the Conquests of Enuy:
Containing ruine of common weales, murther of Princes, cause of heresies, and in all ages, spoile of deuine and humane blessings, vnto which is adioyned, Enuy conquered by vertues.
Publishing the peaceable victories ob∣tained by the Queenes most excellent Maiesty, against this mortall enimie of publike peace and prosperitie, and lastly A Fortris against Enuy,
Builded vpon the counsels of sacred Scrip∣ture, Lawes of sage Philosophers, and pollicies of well gouerned common weales: wherein euery estate may see the dignities, the true office and cause of disgrace of his vocation.
A worke safely, and necessarie to be read of euerie good subiect.
By George Whetstones Gent.
Malgre.
Seene and allowed.
AT LONDON.
Printed by I. Windet for G. Seton, and are to be sold at his shop vnder Aldersgate 1586.
〈2+ pages missing〉
which are the fountaines of goodnes, from whence princes and heroycal states may receiue perfect wisedome, and the whole world besid•… moral instruction: to conclude, your Maiesty (as Gods •…ener) being setled in Salomons throne, crowned with the conquest of Enuy, the queller of Alexan∣der, Caesar, & most of the worthies: plentifully distributing deuine and earthly blessings, vppon afflicted kingdomes, against whom all traiterous practises are of the nature of the horse called Seian, whose maisters had euermore miserable ends. Most gratious Lady, admyring these great considerati∣ons, I fearefully haue armed this profitable booke, with the sheilde of your Royall protection, from whom the glory & goodnes therof is deriued. The censures of graue men which are the substance of this work, stand in place of counsels for your good subiects, and vnto me as loyall as the truest, the bare labor is onely dew. In which trembling presumption, I protest before God and your Maiestie, that my heart nor booke medleth with matter of your happie gouernment, to which no earthly pollicie may be added, neither is heauen∣ly wisdome absent: And as far is it from my thought, in name figure, or circumstance, to misnote any capitall Maiestrate, whose honorable trauels deserue much reuerence, and no lesse regard: It then follo