The humble acknowledgement of the inhabitants of South-Wales and county of Monmouth: presented to the supreme authority of this nation, the Parliament of the Commonwealth of England. Subscribed by nineteen thousand (at the least) of the inhabitants of the places aforesaid. Die Jovis, 20 Junii, 1650. Ordered by the Parliament, that the humble acknowledgement of the inhabitants of South-Wales and the county of Monmouth, with the answer of the House thereunto, be forthwith printed and published. Hen: Scobell, Cleric. Parliamenti.


The Humble Acknowledgement Of the Inhabitants of SOƲTH-WALES And County of Monmouth: PRESENTED To the Supreme Authority of this Nation, THE PARLIAMENT OF THE Commonwealth of England. Subscribed by Nineteen thousand (at the least) of the Inhabitants of the places aforesaid.
Die Jovis, 20 Junii, 1650.ORdered by the Parliament, That The humble Acknow∣ledgement of the Inhabitants of South-Wales and County of Monmouth, with the Answer of the House there∣unto, be forthwith printed and published.
Hen: Scobell, Cleric. Parliamenti.London, Printed by Edward Husband and John Field, Printer to the Parliament of England. 1650.
To the Supreme Authority of this Nation, The Parliament of the Common∣wealth of England:The humble Acknowledgement of the Inhabitants of South-Wales and County of Monmouth;SHEWING,THat the singular Clemency and Favor extended by You to our long seduced Country, as well in clearing the Inhabitants thereof from the Guilt wherein they had involved themselves with Offenders of a deeper stain, and interpreting all their Failings, as the effects of Fear and Self-preservation; As in manifesting Your Care and Good∣ness for the eternal Welfare of a Peo∣ple, whose ways had lately been in Op∣position to Your just Proceedings, is an
 abundant Refreshment to our hearts, and an ample Testimony to the World, That the Spirit of him who prayed, and laid down his Life for his Enemies, is Your great Counsellor, in the weighty Affairs You manage for the Common∣wealth: And that the inestimable Be∣nefit which we do, and our Posterity in after Ages shall reap, by that Act for propagating the Gospel, is an indelible Engagement upon us to bless God, that enclined Your hearts to grant the same: And we trust it will appear to Your eternal Honor, That the Preaching of the Gospel, is not the least and most in∣considerable Means to Secure and Esta∣blish Your present Government.
Now for these so large and acceptable Favors, so far beyond our Merit or Ex∣pectation,
 proceeding from the Lord through Your Piety and Prudence; The onely return we are enabled to make, is, Our most humble and thank∣ful Acknowledgements thereof; with our Cordial Profession of all future Loyalty and Integrity (by Gods As∣sistance) to the utmost hazard of our Lives and Fortunes, in the ready ad∣vance, and due execution of all Services, according to Your Honorable and Just Commands.The Number of the Names Subscribed to this Petition, were Nineteen thousand, at the leas