A faithful warning with good counsel and advice to the rulers & magistrates in England that they not countenance wicked and merciless men to oppress and spoil the innocent under pretence and colour of a  law / by one that really desireth the prosperity of the truth and the welfare of all men, Alexander Lawrence.


A FAITHFUL WARNING WITH GOOD COUNSEL & ADVICE, TO THE Rulers & Magistrates IN ENGLAND, That they may not countenance Wicked and Mer∣ciless Men to oppress and spoil the Innocent under Pretence and Colour of a Law.
By one that really desireth the Prosperity of the Truth, and the Welfare of all Men, Alexander Lawrence.
And Judgment is turned away backward, and Justice stands afar off; for Truth is fallen in the Street, and Equity cannot enter.
Yea, Truth faileth, and he that departeth from Evil maketh himself a Prey; and the Lord saw it, and it displeased him that there was no Judgment, Isa. 59.14, 15.
Printed in the Year 1675.
A FAITHFUL WARNING WITH GOOD Counsel & Advice, &c.TO You Rulers & Magistrates in this Nation and else-where, who think to establish Cruelty and Oppression by a Law, and thereby to exalt your selves, and Lord it over the Heritage of the most High God, as the Seed of Evil-Doers did in all Generations, as you may read in the Scriptures of Truth, Exod. 5.2. and so on. Pharaoh, that great Oppressor, when Moses and Aaron spake unto him, to let Israel go to serve the Lord, said, Who is the Lord that I should obey his Voice, to let Israel go? I know not the Lord, neither will I let Israel go, &c. but instead thereof made their Task heavier, v. 6.7. So proud Haman whom King Ahasuerus gave Command that all should bow unto, but honest-hearted Morde∣cai, who was as much or more the King's Friend as Haman, did not therein obey the King's Command, knowing Haman to be of the Agagites; and when Haman understood, he was vexed, but thought it Scorn to lay his Hand on Mordecai alone, but sought the Destru∣ction of all the Jews, as you may read, Ester 3. at large. And for Nebuchadnezzar, who made an Image of Gold, and set it up in the Plane of Dura, in the Province of Babylon, and commanded that all should, at what Time they heard the Sound of the Cornet, Flute, Harp, Sackbut, &c. fall down and worship the Golden Image, &c. Dan. 3. at large; but Shadrach, M•shach and Abedn•go, whose Hearts were upright and stedfast before the Lord, would not; and it was told the King, and the King was full of Fury, &c. and said, Who is that God that shall deliver you out of my Hands, verse 15. &c? And the back-sliding Jews, when their Hearts turned from God, though they cryed, The Temple of the Lord, &c. yet they kill'd the Prophets, and stoned them that were sent; and when Christ the Son was come

who is Heir and Lord over all, they said, We have a Law, and by our Law he ought to dye. Several more Instances might be given, how many went about to establish Cruelty and Oppression by a Law, as in the Ten Persecutions, and in Queen Mary's Dayes, who was c