That the punishment of the finally impenitent shall be eternal; or, That all men shall not be saved, attempted to be proved and illustrated in three sermons, preached at Malden, October, 1782. / By Peter Thacher, A.M. Pastor of the First Church of Christ in that town. ; [Four lines in Latin from Virgil]


Mr. Thacher's THREE SERMONS, On Future Punishment.
That the Punishment of the finally Impenitent shall be eternal; Or, That all Men shall not be saved, ATTEMPTED TO BE PROVED AND ILLUSTRATED IN THREE SERMONS, Preached at MALDEN, OCTOBER, 1782. By Peter Thacher, A. M. PASTOR of the First Church of Christ in that Town.
——Facilis descensus Averni:
Noctes atque dies patet atri janua Ditis;
Sed revocare gradum, superasque evadere ad auras
Hoc opus, hic labor est.—
VIRGIL.
SALEM: Printed by SAMUEL HALL, and to be sold at his Printing-Office near the Court-House. MDCCLXXXIII.
PREFACE.IT may be supposed by many, that the following pub|lication needs an apology: the author is sensible of it, and offers, as such, the reasons which he gives, in the beginning of the subject, for entering upon it.
He is not fond of religious controversy; but there are times when a minister of religion may feel it necessary to bear his testimony, feeble as it may be, against errors, which, in his view, teem with the most pernicious conse|quences to the interests of real piety, and the welfare of society.
Such a time the author esteems the present to be. Alarmed at the progress of the errors which the following Sermons are designed to refute, and at the patronage af|forded them by some distinguished characters in our the|ological world, he was willing to contribute his mite to the cause of truth, and to hazard his name and (some may think) his reputation as a writer, in the support of it.
He hath treated the subject in a general and diffusive manner, with the design, that it may be understood by all. He hath treated it practically; for it is, or ought to be, the end of every discourse, to make men not only wiser, but better. If he can establish the wavering mind of one serious Christian; if he can arouse one careless sinner to a sense of his danger, he will esteem it a rich reward for all his trouble, and a better recompence than the highest re|putation as a polemical writer.
He is not conscious to himself of feeling any bitterness against those who think differently from him. Though he
i
considers them as mistaken, yet he hopes them to be good men, and influenced by the dictates of their consciences. Perhaps there may some warm expressions have escaped him, in the course of the argument; they are not meant for the men, but for the doctrine which they assert and patronize.
The unanimous desire of those who heard them, and the opinion of such as have read them in manuscript, have led to the publication of these discourses.
P. T.Malden,November, 1782.THREE SERMONS, PREACHED AT MALDEN, OCTOBER, 1782.ISAIAH lxvi. 24.AND they shall go forth, and look upon the carcases of the men th