Some seasonable considerations for the good people of Connecticut


SOME
Seasonable Considerations
For the good People of
CONNECTICUTI Remember there was Advice given us in the Year
1689. when we were about to make our Revolu∣tion,
(as 'tis called) and for ought I know it hàd been
good for us thàt we had taken it. But we are so un∣willing
to be àdvised, and so ill affected to any that tell
us the Truth, that there is little Encourâgement for
any to expose themselves in that kind for the future.
The Prophet sayes, The Prudent shall keep Silence,
for it is an evil time: And the greatest of Prophets
hath said, Cast not your Pearls before Swine, lest
they turn again and rent you. But I would hope the
case is not yet so desperate. And I remember it is also
said, Thou shalt not hate thy Brother in thy heart, thou
shalt in any wise rebuke him, and not suffer sin upon
him. And methinks no reasonable Creature should look
upon a Perswasion to Consideration as if it were evi

Council, or did proceed from ill Will. Therefore I
will adventure for my Country-men and Brethrens
sake to make one Essay.
It was said of Old, Consider, take Advice, and
speak your Minds. Temerity is always evil, Consider∣ation
is always good, but sometimes necessàry. It is
requisite that we be always sober and considerate, but
especially when we have to do in things that immediately
and deeply concern not our selves only, but GOD
and the KING too.
With relation to God, it is said, Be not rash with
thy Mouth, and let not thine heart be hasty to utter
any thing before God, Ecles. 5. 2.
With reference to the King, Be not hasty to go out of
his sight—A Wise Mans Heart discerns both
Time nnd Judgment, Eccles. 8. 3, 5.
With reference to our selves, Ponder the path of
thy feet, and let all thy ways be established, Prov.
4. 26.
Verily, we have cause of Consideration. He is a
stranger in Connecticut that knows not what hath lately
been done there. Let us first reflect, and see what we
have done, and then examine and consider it.

The last Year their Majesties gave a Commission of
Lieutenancy to his Excellency Sir William Phips, Kt.
Captain General and Governour in chief of their
said Majesties Province of the Massachusets in New-England,
whereby he was constituted their Majesties
Lieut. and Commander in chief of the Militia, &c.
in Connecticut. But upon Notice hereof a General
Assembly was càlled, and met, and there it was resolved,
Not to submit to it, nor to take any notice of Sir William
Phips in that capacity. Afterward, at another General
Assembly we resolve to address their Majesties forth∣with,
and in the mean time request Sir William Phips
thereupon to suspend the Execution of his Commis∣sion
till we can have an Answer from their Mājesties:
Yet no Address is made to their Majesties, as was
pretended. After which, Sir William Phips making
some further Demands in the Spring, 1693. we pro∣mise
to pay him some hundreds of Pounds, and to
take upon us thē Defence of thé upper Towns upon
th