Some unregenerate persons not so far from the Kingdom of God as others. Illustrated in a sermon from Mark XII. 34. Preached some time past at the Thursday lecture in Boston. / By Nathaniel Appleton, A.M. Pastor of the First Church in Cambridge. ; [Five lines of Scripture texts]


Mr. Appleton's SERMON At the Thursday Lecture in BOSTON.
Some unregenerate Persons not so far from the King∣dom of GOD as others. Illustrated in a SERMON From MARK xii. 34. Preached some time past at the Thursday Lecture in Boston.
By NATHANIEL APPLETON, A. M. Pastor of the first Church in Cambridge.
And he answered and said unto him, Master all these have I observed from my Youth. Then Jesus beholding him, loved him, and said unto him, one thing thou lackest.
Mark x. 20, 21.Agrippa said unto Paul, Almost thou perswadest me to be a Christian.
Acts xxvi. 28.BOSTON: Printed and Sold by S. KNEELAND in Queen-Street. M,DCC,LXIII.
TO The Honourable WILLIAM BRATTLE, Esq Brigadier-General, and One of His Majesty's Council: The following Discourse (Published by his Desire) Is with great Respect INSCRIBED By His much obliged Friend and humble Servant
The Author.A Jewish Scribe not far from the Kingdom of GOD.MARK xii. 34.And when Jesus saw that he answered dis∣creetly, he said unto him, thou art not far from the kingdom of GOD.
THIS is the answer Christ made to a certain scribe, whom after some conference, he found to be more knowing, at least more ingenuous and fair in his concessions and acknowledge∣ments, as well as in his inquiries, than the others, who conversed with him. The others came not to be inlightened and instructed by Christ; for they, who had been instructed in all the learning of their law, did in the pride of their hearts scorn to be taught of him; but their design was to insnare him in their talk: Thus we are told, that certain of the Pharisees and of the Herodians (being sent by the rest) came to him to catch him in his words, v. 13. which was by putting some en∣snaring questions; that by his answers they might get something against him. One of the questions they put was, Whether it was lawful to give Tribute to Caesar or not? In which Christ saw thro' all their hypocrisy & cunning: and gave them an answer, which raised their admiration; but gave them no handle against him. — Then came the
Sadducees with their puzzling question about the Resur∣rection: To which Christ answered, so as not only to put them to silence, but to convince them of their error, and their infidelity, if they had not been prejudiced against him.
And now, one of the Scribes (the person our text re∣fers to) being present; and hearing how well, and how wisely Christ answered the Pharisees and the Sadducees; takes his turn and puts his question, saying to him; Which is the first Commandment of all? The question being put in a plain manner, and as if he aimed rather at being instructed, than to get any thing against Christ in his answer; Christ answers him directly to the question; and tells hi