Living loves betwixt Christ and dying Christians A sermon preached at M. Magdalene Bermondsey in Southwark, near London, June 6. 1654. At the funeral of that faithful servant of Christ Mr. Jeremiah Whitaker, Minister of the Gospel, and pastor of the church there. With a narative of his exemplarily holy life and death. By Simeon Ashe, his much endeared friend and brother. Together with poems and elegies on his death, by divers ministers in the city of London.


LIVING LOVES BETWIXT CHRIST AND DYING CHRISTIANS. A SERMON Preached At M. Magdalene Bermondsey in Southwark, near London, June 6. 1654. At the Funeral of that faithful Servant of Christ Mr. Jeremiah Whitaker, Mini∣ster of the Gospel, and Pastor of the Church there.
With a Narative of his Exemplarily holy Life and Death.
By SIMEON ASHE, his much endeared Friend and Brother.
Together with POEMS and ELEGIES on his Death, by divers Ministers in the City of LONDON.
The Righteous perish and no man layeth it to heart, and merciful men are taken away, none considering that the righteous is taken away from the evil to come. He shall enter into Peace, they shall rest in their beds, each one walking in his uprightness.Isai. 57. 1, 2London, Printed by T. M. for Ralph Smith, at the Bible in Cornhil, near the Royal Exchange. 1654.
The Licencer's Epistle to the READER.IT is reported in the life of Ambrose, that when heheard of the death of any holy Ministers, he would weep very bitterly. The like I read of Philo, that when he came into any Town or Village, and heard of the death of any good man there dwelling, he would mourn ex∣ceedingly, becau•e of the great losse that place and the whole Church of Christ had received thereby. How much more cause have we of this age to lament our condition, who have in few years lost so many precious Saints, and so many Reverend, Learned, and godly Ministers; Surely this sad providence of God speaks with a loud voice, that miseries and calamities are hasting upon this Nation. For the righteous perish (saith the Prophet) and no man layeth it to heart, and merciful men are taken away, none considering that the righteous is taken away from the evil to come. Thus Austin died a little before Hippo (wherin he dwelt) was taken. And Paraeus, before Heil∣derbergh was sacked. And Luther immediately before Germa∣ny was overrun with wa• and bloodshed▪And now of late years many eminent Lights have been extinguished in this Nation, to fore signifie the great darknesse that is coming upon us. A∣mongst which, I cannot but reckon my revere•d brother Mr. Je∣remiah Whitaker, at whose Funeral this ensuing Sermon was preached. If I should enter upon his commendation, I might tru∣ly say what Nazianzene doth of his sister Gorgonia, That I have more cause to fear least I should speak below, then a∣bove the Truth; for he was a burning and a shining light in this our Israel; a Messenger and an Interpreter, one among
 a thousand; a Bezaleel in Gods Tabernacle, a true Nathanael, that by his integri