which had been prorogued successively to the 27th October, thence to the 15th December, and thence to the 24th January, met this day for Despatch of Business.
being seated on the Throne, and the Commons being at the Bar, with their Speaker, HER MAJESTY was pleased to make a most gracious Speech to both Houses of Parliament, as follows:—
in rising to move that an humble Address be presented by this House in answer to Her Majesty's most gracious Speech, said:—
My Lords, it is with diffidence that I rise to address your Lordships for the first time, and the greater is that diffidence when I recollect that although for many years I had the honour of a seat in the other House of Parliament, I remained throughout that time a silent actor in all the scenes to which my duties called me; but I will be brief, and the observations which I make shall be few, and I trust you will not weigh in too nice a balance any expressions which may fall from me on this occasion.
We hear from Her gracious Majesty that it is with gratification
She meets her Parliament, that She continues on terms of friendship with all foreign countries; but while there is this general cause for satisfaction, there is, in my estimation, one reason for still greater congratulation.
I heard but yesterday that a Commercial Treaty had been signed between the Government of the Emperor of the French and the Government of this country.
I for one cannot hear of this Treaty otherwise than with the greatest satisfaction, as it appears to me more calculated to promote the prosperity, peace, and happiness of mankind than anything which could have been proposed, and tended more especially to bind together those two countries whose interests are more immediately at issue.
One circumstance we cannot hear of without regret, namely, that those kindly offices which were tendered by Her Majesty to the Governments of Morocco and Spain have not been accepted.
But I will turn from that topic to one which we as Englishmen cannot view without admiration.
We cannot witness the noble efforts now being made by the Italian people to win for themselves those liberties which we have so long enjoyed, and so justly prized, with- out feelings of the deepest sympathy and respect—and having won them, I trust they will use them with the moderation and wisdom which their conduct has given us every reason to expect.
I will now turn to one other point of Her Majesty's Speech which we heard with feelings of the deepest gratitude.
We learn that those vast territories over which Her Majesty rules in India are now tranquil—that the miseries and sufferings of their inhabitants have been brought to a close; and I cannot but hope that having been purified by those fiery trials through which they have passed, the people of those countries may become more moral, contented, and happy, than they have ever been.
My Lords, I said I would not detain you long by any observations I might offer, but there is one other point of Her Majesty's Spe