A sermon preached before the King, in St. James's chappel, January 30th, 1698/9 by Samuel Bradford ...


A SERMON Preached before the KING, In St. James's Chappel, January 30th. 1698/9.
By SAMƲEL BRADFORD, Rector of St. Mary le Bow.
Published by His Majesty's Special Command.
LONDON, Printed by J. L. for Matt. Wotton at the Three Daggers near the Temple-Gate in Fleetstreet, 1699.
PROV. xxiv. 21.My Son, fear thou the Lord and the King: And meddle not with them that are given to change.
THESE Words of Solomon contain Three excellent Rules, for the Direction of our Practice, which, if duely observ'd and com∣ply'd with, would conduce very much to the happiness of Mankind, whether consider'd, every Man in his single Capacity, or as Members of Society. In discoursing of them, I propose the following Method.
I. To consider each of these Directions apart, shew∣ing what Solomon means by fearing the Lord, by fearing the King, and by not meddling with them that are given to change; taking in also, as I go along, the Reasons upon which these Directions are grounded.II. To make such Application of my Discourse, as may be suitable to the present Occasion.I. To begin with the Explication of the Directions given in the Text. And,
 1. To consider what Solomon means, by fearing the Lord, and what Obligations we are under to comply with this Direction.
The fear of the Lord is generally taken in the Sa∣cred Writings, for the whole of Religion. Thus the royal Psalmist,
The fear of the Lord is the beginning of Wisdom: a good Understanding have all they, that do his Commandments; where the fear of the Lord in the former part of the Verse, is explain'd by doing his Commandments, in the latter part of it. And the like we find in divers other places.
And the Reason is obvious. For as all Religion hath reference to God as its Object, so the fear of God is the first Principle of Religion; by which Fear is to be understood, not a meer Dread of Almighty and Irresistible Power; but an aweful regard also to all the other Divine Attributes and Perfections.
Thus, the fear of God implies a great sense of his infinite Knowledge and Wisdom, an apprehension of his Omnipresence, that he beholds us wheresoever we are, and observes what we are doing, looking into our Hearts, and knowing our Thoughts afar off. It includes a respect to the perfect Holiness and Purity of the Divine Nature, his love of Goodness, and his hatred of all that's Evil; as also a belief of his im∣partial Justice and Righteousness, as he is the Lord and Governor of the Universe. It contains in it an humble Reverence towards the Divine Goodness, con∣sidering God as the Author of all that's Good, as the
bountiful Maker and Preserver of every Creature, and the tender and compassionate Father of his intellectual Off-spring. In a word; The fear of God is a regard towards the Divine Being of the same kind, though far exceeding it in degree, with that of a dutiful Child towards a wise and good Parent.
And this may well be