The declaration of the armie concerning the City of London; and a letter to the Royalists of the said city, touching their bloudy and inhumane proceedings against the Army. With their resolution and protestation, touching their designes within the city, and that if they put them into execution, they will put hundreds of them to the sword, and hang their quarters upon the gates, and set their heads upon the spires of steeples. Also, a great plot discovered against the kingdom and city, and a great overthrow given to the Danes upon the Scottish seas. Published for generall satisfaction to undecieve the people of England.


THE DECLARATION OF THE ARMIE CONCERNING The City of LONDON; And a Letter to the Royalists of the said City, touching their bloudy and inhumane proceedings against the ARMY.
WITH Their Resolution and Protestation, touching their Designes within the City, and that if they put them into execu∣tion, they will put Hundreds of them to the sword, and hang their quarters upon the gates, and set their heads upon the Spires of Steeples.
ALSO, A great Plot discovered against the Kingdom and City, and a great Overthrow given to the Danes upon the Scottish Seas.
Published for generall satisfaction to undeceive the people of England.
LONDON: Printed for R. Williamson, 1648.
Terrible NEWES For the City of LONDONTHE great insolency of the Royal party with∣in and about the City of London, occasions much jealousie from the Army; the hatred and malice of the Royalists being so great, that it over swayes their discretion so much; that they canno keep themselves within the bounds of ordinary civit¦lity, and discover themselves by seeking their privat-revenge;
as appears by their late horrid action execu∣ted upon certain Members of the Army neer the Strand, who by some of the bloudy Conspirators were most barbarously murthered in their Beds. This inhumane Design strikes terrour to the well-affected party, who being much perplexed thereat, acquaints the Army therewith; insomuch that some of the com∣manders forthwith sends a letter to the City, the effect whereof followeth.
The Armies Letter to the City.VVE are much startled at the insolency of the trayterous slaves in London, to kill two Offi∣cers of our Army, one in his bed, and the other with a co∣wardly stab, and of their intended attempt to pistoll our Generall, besides many assaults upon Members of Parlia∣ment, and their Design to have massacred fourscore of them.
We do protest, if the Royall slaves continue their inso∣lency, and put uny of these Designs into execution, we will for every mans life take one hundred of their owr party, and according to the quality of each massacred person, and will hang up their heads on spires of steeples, that the world may see the just judgment of God upon these Rebels and Traytors, which his Maiesty contesses are guilty of all the innocent bloud of the four hundred thou∣sand soules that have perished in this War.
This Letter was thought fit to be published to th