The case of Mr. Hugh Peters, impartially communicated to the vievv and censure of the whole world: written by his own hand.


THE
CASE
OF
Mr. Hugh Peters,
Impartially Communicated to the
Vievv and Censure
Of the
Whole World:
Written by his own hand.
LONDON:
Printed for Sam. Speed, and are to be sold at his shop, at the
signe of the Printing-Press in St. Pauls Church-yard.
THE
CASE
OF
Mr. Hugh Peters,
&c.THey which think to Vindicate them∣selves
to the World by writing Apo∣logies,
rarely reach their ends, because
their Game is an After-game: preju∣dice
is strong, and the Plaister can
hardly be made broad enough, nor Apologies put in∣to
all hands who have pre-judged and received the
first tincture. And therefore our blessed Saviour is
slow in that work; onely clears the great question of
that age, by proving himself the Messiah, (Joh. 5.) by

four witnesses, but not forward to answer expectati∣ons
of the World otherwise.
And yet so much of his example there is; yea, so
much of St. Pauls, and others, that there seems to be
a necessity of saying something, though hard to wipe
off so much dirt as is thrown on my self. Yet at this
distance and leasure, hearing by printed papers what
my Lot is in England, my native Country; There∣fore
I do in the Name and fear of God, and before
his holy Majesty, Angels and Men, profess that I ne∣ver
had head nor hand in contriving or managing
the late Kings death, as is basely and scandalously
suggested by black mouths: was all that day (he dy∣ed)
sick and sad in my Chamber; which I prove by
two substantial witnesses. And for what is in that
Pamphlet June 19. about my confessing in my sick∣ness,
landing at Plymouth from Ireland, it is most un∣true
and mistaken: for I never was sick at Plymouth,
nor landed there from Ireland: nor any of that infor∣mation
colourable; & this I avouch in the truth of my
soul; and would in presence justifie, if weakness, and
lameness, and this distance did not hinder; yea, ma∣ny
years being upon me, and an utter inability to do
my self right in these things, if the Lord do not make
my way in the hearts of men.
I shall briefly give an account of my coming into
England, my behaviour since I came, and my present
condition in this Juncture.
A Colony going to settle in New England, by his
late Majesties Patent, I went thither; who by my
birth in Cornwel, was not a meer stranger to that

place, and fishing-trade: and thither, invited often, I
say, went, and was with another sent into England by
the Magistrates there, for ease in Excise and Custom,
and some supplies for Learning, &c. because I had
been witness to the Indians receiving the Gospel there
in Faith and Practise; they having the Bible transla∣ted
by us into their Language, and part thereof prin∣ted,
and hundreds of them professing the Gospel, and
teaching each other the knowledge of the true God;
and the rather, from the example of the English there:
when in seven years among thousands there dwelling,
I never saw any drunk, nor heard an