Hodos tethlimmēnē. = The narrow way to glory. Delivered in a sermon, by the Archdeacon of Shrewsbury


ΟΔΟΣ ΤΕΘΛΙΜΜΗΝΗ.
THE NARROW WAY TO GLORY.
Delivered in a Sermon, by the Archdeacon of Shrewsbury.
Regnum Dei conceditur, promittitur, ostenditur, percipitur. Conceditur in Pradestinatione, Promittitur in Voca∣tione, Ostenditur in Iustificatione, Per∣cipitur in Glorificatione,—In Pradestinatione est Gratia, in Vocati∣one Potentia, in Iustificatione Laetitiae, in Magnificatione Gloria.
Bern. in Ser∣de verb. Sap. Iustum diduxit, &c.Printed at London by T. Cotes for Richard Hawkins, and are to be sold at his shop in Chancery Lane, neare the Rowles, 1634.
Decemb. 4. 1633.PErlegi hanc concionem habitam a Mr. Ieffray, cui titulus (The nar∣row way to glory) unâ cum Epi∣stola Dedicatoria & Prefatione ad lecto∣rem; qui quidem liber continet folia 5. & paginam insuper unam: in quibus nil reperio sanae Doctrinae aut bonis mori∣bus contrarium, quo minus cum publica utilitate imprimatur, sub ea tamen con∣ditione ut si non intratres Menses typis fuerit mandatus, haec licentia sit omni∣nò irrita.
Guilielmus Haywood, Arch. Cantuar. Capell. domesticus.TO THE RIGHT Worshipfull, my most worthy, and much honoured Vncles.
Iames Pagitt, one of the Barons of his Majesties most honoura∣ble Court of Ex∣chequer.Charles Twysden, Dr of the Lawes, and Chancellor of the Dioces of Coventrry and Leich field.Prosperity in this life temporall, and glory in that which is eternall.Right worshipfull.SInce it hath pleased Al∣mighty God to unite me by that sacred bond into both your families, I have alwayes thought which way
I might best tender my duty and service to your selves, as also to the memory of that religious Gen∣tlewoman, my most honoured Aunt, sister to the one, and wife to the other, whose religious life and happy death, conclude her now to be a Saint in heaven; but finding my owne weakenesse, I have beene thus long silent, yet since it hath pleased one of you to wish me to let this Sermon see the world: I would not deny such a just re∣quest, to me I confesse a powerfull Command. And since your true affe∣ction, hath linked you together in one sincere love, I would not se∣ver you in this Paper Present; if any good may be reaped by the publication of it, I desire the glory may be given to God, and thankes to you, by whose favour I live more happily; This, they that know
me, know, and I desire that the world may know, that I am
From my house at Hamstall-Rydvvarethis 1 of Ianuary. 1634.Your most bounden Nephew in all duty and service,William Ieffray.TO THE E∣quall Reader.Good Reader.LEt me intreat thee not to play the Critique, nor seeke a knot in an even rush: if thou fin∣dest any thing that pleaseth thee,
 accept it, if other∣wise reject it. It may be I shall dif∣fer in some discoveries, from men of greatest eminencie, and such whom I vow from my heart, I doe truely honour; but the difference as I take it, is so little, that a not∣prejudiciall eye, will hardly dis∣cerne i