A modern essay on the tenth satyr of Juvenal. By Henry Higden, Esquire. Licensed June 2d. 1686. Ro. L'Estrange


A
Modern Essay
On the Tenth
SATYR
OF
JUVENAL.
By HENRY HIGDEN, Esquire.
Licensed June d. . Ro. L'Estrange.
Ridendo Monet.
LONDON:
Printed by T. Milbourn in Jewen-Street, .
To the Right Honourable
RICHARD,
LORD
LUMLEY,
Baron of LVMLEY,
AND
Viscount LVMLEY in Ireland, &c.THE Knowledge I have of Your Lordships
Great Worth and Honour, is the Mo∣tive
that pushes me to Publish this
Piece under Your Lordships Patronage,
whose Name and Character is so Illustrious, that it
was impossible for me to Resist such a Powerful
Attraction: But when I reflect on the Poorness of the
Present and Presenter, and from thence advance my
Thoughts, to consider the Grandeur of my Patron,
I discover my Want of Ability to render You the
Just Attributes of your Merit: Who besides Your
Lordships Hereditary Vertues, possess so many Ex∣cellent
acquired Ones, the Contemplation whereof

fills me with Raptures and Transports too Exquisite
for a Description. With this Impotence I wholly
desist from a Panegyrick in this Epistle, the general
Topick of Dedications, having so Just an Excuse for
the Want of Mine, which would be wholly unne∣cessary,
since Your Lordships Vertues are so Eminent
and Conspicuous, they want neither a Herauld nor
an Historian.
I was conscious to my Self (My Lord) of an unpar∣donable
piece of Confidence in this Address, in lay∣ing
so Poor a Trifle at Your Lordships Feet. But,
alas! What boots the Sense of a Fault, without being
able to Resist the Temptation of Committing it?
Besides, the Consideration that I was already Listed
in the Gang of Scriblers, and commenced a Brother
of the Quill, who of all Mankind are the least apt
to have their Modesty or Conscience fly into their
Faces: The Muses themselves (under favour) being
thought but a sort of light Rambling Gypsies 〈◊〉 and
of so deep an Affrican Complexion, that they were never
observed to Redden, for all their daily Presumptions
and Extravagancies; and Whipping (as Experience
has Taught us) does but raise and provoke their
Mettle to more Waggish Pranks. Do not we daily
see, that the Lowest Fluttering Dogrell shall with as
great an assurance perch under a Noble Umbrage,
as the Highest Soarer in Heroick Flights? The Carrion
Crow shall aspire to Build in the Cedar's Top, and
the Noble Eagle can pretend to no more. This
Hereditary Liberty allowed; as also, That all Mo∣desty

is directly against the Rules of our Order,
and the Charter of our Company; And that these
Cogent Poetical Reasons being maturely weighed, may,
I hope, Warrant my Obedience to Custome, and
Apologize for a Troublesome and Impertinent De∣dication;
to suffer in which Case will be for me
much more tolerable, than by my omitting so Ne∣cessary
a Ceremony, provoke a Revengeful and Offen∣ded
Brotherhood, that will assuredly Damn me by a
Universal Consent, for presuming to hope for Salva∣tion,
and to Stand and Fall by my own Merits,
withou