The soules immortall crowne consisting of seauen glorious graces I. Vertue. 2. Wisedome. 3. Loue. 4. Constancie. 5. Patience. 6. Humilitie. 7. Infinitenes. : devided into seaven dayes workes, and dedicated to the Kings most excellent Maiestie.


THE
Soules immortall crowne con∣sisting
of seauen glorious
graces.
1. Vertue. 2. Wisedome. 3. Loue.
4. Constancie. 5. Patience. 6. Hu∣militie.
7. Infinitenes.
DEVIDED INTO SEAVEN
dayes Workes.
AND
Dedicated to the Kings most excellent
Maiestie.
AT LONDON
Printed by H. Lownes,
and are to be sold by I. C. and F. B.
1605.
TO THE HIGH
and mightie Prince, IAMES by the
grace of God, King of great Brittaine, France
and Ireland, defendour of the faith,
&c.TO whom shall I dedicate the
praise of Vertue, but to him whō
Vertue praiseth, which in your
Maiestie being made good, to the eies
of those vnderstanding spirits, that can
iudge of the heauenly notes of heroi∣call
natures (I hope) hauing Truth for
my warrant, to escape the scandall of
fawning Eloquence: vouchsafe there∣fore
my gratious Soueraigne, in this
plaine Poem, to peruse the labour of
my hearts loue, which with the seruice
of true loyaltie, I humbly lay at the feet
of your Royall Maiestie, beseeching
the vertue of all grace, & grace of all
vertue, so to blesse you with his infi∣nite

blessings, that as vertue vnder hea∣uē
putteth her praise vnder your Patro∣nage,
so the Patrone of all vertue will
so Royallize your praise in the Hea∣uens,
that to your gratious Crowne on
earth, you may receiue a Crowne of
Eternall glory.
Your Maiesties most
humble and loyall in
all seruice,
BER N. Gent.To the Reader.YOu that haue a heart to lift your eies aboue
your head, and haue not buried your soule
in the sinke of sinne, take a little time to
reade ouer this little Tract, where if ver∣tue
may inuite you, wisedome may woe you, loue
may draw you, constancie may content you, pati∣ence
may perswade you, or humility may entreate
you, you shall not passe without your paiment, and
make a profit of your expence: the villaine can∣not
taste it, the foole vnderstand it, the hatefull
not loue it, nor the inconstant commend it, the
impatient endure it, nor the proud regard it: but
I hope the best will alow it, and to thē I only leaue
it, who can best iudge of it, will iudiciously peruse
it, and accordingly esteeme it; there is no state
taxed in it, no person abused by it, none that reade
it, but may haue good of it, and for the good of all
men I haue done it. The youthfull may learne,
and the aged consider what is most necessarie for
the soules comfort, the rich may finde treasure a∣boue
their wealth, and the poore, reliefe in their
miserie: in sume, to auoid tediousnes, I hope you
shall see Vertue truly honoured, Wisedome truly
praised, Loue truly described, Constancie truly

commended, Patience truly proued, and God in
all, truly glorified: to the tuition of whose grace,
in hearty praier for your happines, that you may
seeke it only in his goodnes: I leaue you for this
time, an