The English physitian enlarged with three hundred, sixty, and nine medicines made of English herbs that were not in any impression until this: ... Being an astrologo-physical discourse of the vulgar herbs of this nation: containing a compleat method of physick, whereby a man may preserve his body in health; or cure himself, being sick, for three pence charge, with such things only as grow in England, they being most fit for English bodies. Herein is also shewed these seven things, viz. 1 The way of making plaisters, oyntments, oyls, pultisses, syrups, decoctions, julips, or waters, of al sorts of physical herbs ... 7 The way of mixing medicines according to cause and mixture of the disease, and part of the body afflicted. By Nich. Culpeper, Gent. student in physick and astrologie: living in Spittle Fields.


THE English Physitian ENLARGED: With Three Hundred, Sixty, and Nine Medicines made of English Herbs that were not in any Impression until this: The Epistle wil Inform you how to know This Impression from any other.
Being an Astrologo-Physical Discourse of the Vulgar Herbs of this Nation: Containing a Compleat Method of Physick, whereby a man may preserve his Body in Health; or Cure himself, being Sick, for three pence Charge, with such things only as grow in England, they being most fit for English Bodies.
Herein is also shewed these Seven Things, viz. 1 The Way of ma∣king Plaisters, Oyntments, Oyls, Pultisses, Syrups, Decoctions, Julips, or Waters, of al sorts of Physical Herbs, That you may have them ready for your use at al times of the yeer. 2 What Planet Go∣verneth every Herb or Tree (used in Physick) that groweth in England. 3 The Time of gathering al Herbs, both Vulgarly, and Astologically. 4 The Way of Drying and Keeping the Herbs al the yeer. 5 The Way of Keeping their Juyces ready for use at al times. 6 The Way of Making and Keeping al kind of useful Com∣pounds made of Herbs. 7 The Way of mixing Medicines accor∣ding to Cause and Mixture of the Disease, and Part of the Body Afflicted.
By NICH. CULPEPER, Gent. Student in Physick and Astrologie: Living in Spittle Fields.
London, Printed by Peter Cole in Leaden-Hall, and are to be sold at his Shop at the sign of the Printing-press in Cornhil, neer the Royal Exchange. 1653.
 [illustration]  [printer's or publisher's device] COLE.
〈1 page duplicate〉To the READER.Reader,TAke notice, That in this Impression, published September the 5th 1653. I have made very many Additions to every Sheet in the Book: And also, That th•se Books of mine that are printed of that Letter the smal Bibles are printed with, are very falsly prin∣ted; there being usually twenty or thirty gross mistakes in every Sheet, many of them such as are exceeding dangerous to such as shal venture to use them: And therfore I do hereby warn you of them, I can do no more at present; only take notice of these three Directions by which you shal be sure to know the True one from the False.
The first Direction.] The True one hath this