A trve relation of the miseralble [sic] estate that Ireland now standeth in manifested by a letter sent from the Lord Dungarvan, son to the Earle of Corke, to Sir Arthur Magennis, a worthy knight in England : wherein is shewed the great distresse of the Protestants there inhabiting : likwise the preparation for Ireland, by assent of both Houses of Parliament : with the great comfort that they daily receive by meanes of the valour of Sir Simon Harcovrt : with a list of the ships, men, money & ammunition sent for the present reliese of the poore distressed Protestants of Ireland.



A TRVE RELATION OF The Miseralble Estate THAT Ireland now standeth in.
MANIFESTED By a Letter sent from the Lord Dungarvan Son to the Earle of Corke: TO Sir Arthur Magennis, a worthy Knight in ENGLAND.
Wherein is shewed the great distresse of the Protestants there inhabiting:
Likwise the preparation for Ireland, by assent of both Houses of Parliament.
With the great comfort that they daily re∣ceive by meanes of the valour of Sir SIMON HARCOVRT.
With a list of the Ships, men, money & Am∣munition sent for the present reliefe of the poore distressed Protestants of IRELAND.
LONDON Printed by Iohn Hammond.
February 9. 1642.

THE TRVE Copie of a Letter sent from the Lord of DVNGARVAN, sonne to the Earle of Corke, to Sir Arthur Magennis, a worthy Knight in ENGLAND.SIR,I Would have made you acquainted with the troubles which daily increase more and more to our great sorrow: the distres∣sed estate of our County of Corke is grie∣vous to expresse; but opportunity hath not so well fitted, as to give you a more timely re∣lation thereof. The rebels have so farre en∣croached into the body of our County, that they are become Masters of the most part thereof, divers Lords being newly revolted to them.

Amongst the rest, the Lord ANTRIM, within the Province of Munster, about a fortnight agone, is revolted, with many souldiers that were under his command, and have committed great slaughters on the Protestants, with extreame cruelty, and in∣humane massacres, yet have they beene va∣liantly resisted by Sir Simon Harcourt, and his Forces: who hath proved himselfe a stout souldier, and faithfull subiect to the King of England; and hath taken from the Rebels divers Forts and Castles, and keepes the same well manned with good Garri∣sons.
Our Armie set forwards towards the Re∣bels, to give them an incounter on Wednes∣day last was a seven-night; but they hearing thereof, withdrew themselves to the confines of our County, where they have mustred their Army, and raised it there to twentie thousand; which being perceived, wee desi∣red to ioyne with Sir Simon Harcourt and the Scots in those parts, which they accep∣ted: and marching towards the Rebels, they tooke the Field, where was a battell fought between us; where (God bee praised) wee lost but one hundred men, whereof our grea∣test losse was the Lord Fawklands brother: and the adverse party lost above three thou∣sand

five hundred, as wee conceive