The children of the abbey, a tale. In four volumes. / By Regina Maria Roche. ; [Five lines from Thomson] ; Vol. I[-II].



THE CHILDREN OF THE ABBEY, A TALE.
IN FOUR VOLUMES.
BY Regina Maria Roche.
A matchless pair;
With equal virtue form'd and equal grace,
The same, distinguish'd by their sex alone;
Her's the mild lustre of the blooming morn,
And his the radiance of the risen day.
THOMSON.Second American Edition. VOL. I.
PHILADELPHIA: PRINTED BY JOHN BIOREN, FOR ROBERT CAMPBELL. M,DCCC.

TO MAJOR GENERAL Sir ADAM WILLIAMSON, K. B.SIR,I SHOULD not have presumed to intrude upon your notice the amusement of my leisure hours, had it not afforded me an opportunity, I have long anxiously desired, of expressing the grateful sentiments which your great, your unsolicited goodness to one of my nearest and most beloved connexions had inspired me with; yet, ardently as I have longed, I almost shrink from it, through a conviction of being unable to utter what I feel, and nothing but a wish of avow|ing, in some degree, my obligations for those conferred upon one so dear to me, and a hope that you may make 〈◊〉 for so faint, so imperfect a tribute of grati|tude and respect, could have tempted me to avail my|self of it.
Happy, as you must be, in the silent plaudits of your own heart, any thing of this kind is not wanting to complete its satisfaction; yet it surely cannot be un|pleasing to a generous mind to know, that the •avours it confers are properly estimated.

I shall no longer, Sir, encroach upon your time; but, ere I conclude, permit me to offer my sincere congra|tulations on your safe arrival in this kingdom, where, I trust, you may long continue to enjoy every happiness this world can afford: one source of happiness you have, at least, secured to yourself, that which must ever result from the consciousness of diffusing it to others.
I have the honour to be, Sir, with the truest respect, Your most obliged, most obedient, and very humble servant, REGINA MARIA ROCHE.London,June 1, 1796.



THE CHILDREN OF THE ABBEY.
CHAP. I.Yellow sheafs from rich Ceres the cottage had crown'd,
Green rushes were strew'd on the floor,
The casements sweet woodbine crept wantonly round,
And deck'd the sod seats at the door.
CUNNINGHAM.HAIL, sweet asylum of my infancy! Content and innocence reside beneath your humble roof, and charity unboastful of the good it renders. Hail, ye ve|nerable trees! my happiest hours of childish gaiety were past beneath your shelter—then, careless as the birds that sung upon your boughs, I laughed the hours away, nor knew of evil.
Here surely I shall be guarded from duplicity; and if not happy, at least in some degree tranquil. Here unmolested may I wait, till the rude storm of sorrow is overblown, and my father's arms are again expand|ed to receive me.
Such were the words of Amanda, as the chaise (which she had hired at a neighbouring village on quitting the mail) turned down a little verdant lane, almost darken|ed by old trees, whose interwoven