The Christianity of the people called Quakers asserted, by George Keith: in answer to a sheet, called, A serious call to the Quakers, &c. Attested by eight priests of the Church of England ... and affirmed by George Keith, or the new sworn deacon.


The Christianity of the People called Quakers Asserted, by George Keith: In ANSWER to a Sheet, called, A Serious Call to the Quakers, &c. Attested by Eight Priests of the Church of England, called,
Dr. Isham, Rector of St. Buttolphs-Bishopsgate,Dr. Wincop, Rector of St. Mary Abb-Church,Dr. Bedford, Rector of St. George Buttolph-Lane.Mr. Altham, M. A. Rector of St. Andrew Undershaft.Mr. Bradford, M. A. Rector of St. Mary-le-bow.Mr. Whitfield, M. A. Rect. of St. Mart. at Ludgate.Mr. Butler, M. A. Rector of St. Mary Aldermanbury.Mr. Adams, M. A. Rector of St. Alban Woodstreet.And Affirmed by George Keith, or the New Sworn Deacon.It's a marvelous thing, that these Men have no other way to oppugn the Quakers, but by gross and horrid Lyes, and false Calumnies, and meer Abuses; like unto the ways that ever the worst of the Adversaries of Truth have used against the True Witnesses of it, saith G. K. in his Presb. and Indep. Visible Churches, p. 222, 230. But It never yet hath been proved, nor ever will, That the Religion professed by the sincere and faithful People called in scorn Quakers, is either Paganism, or any other thing, than Real Christianity,saith G. K. in his Preface to his Serious Appeal.MEeting with a Sheet, Intituled, A Serious Call; wherein are several Quotations, already replyed unto, in a late Book, Intituled, The Creed-Forgers detected, &c. Yet seeing they are said to be Attested by the Eight Priests aforesaid, and Affirmed by George Keith; Ex∣actly to Agree with the Books out of which they are taken, as Cited in the Margent. We there∣fore have examined these following, and find he is mistaken, and so are his Brethren, the eight Priests aforesaid, as those that will examine his 4th, 6th, 20th, 21st. Quotations may find; but we know, as to G. K. it's not the first false Affirmation he hath made, both before and since his Ordination, and to gratifie his new Brethren, and to shew his Enmity, is licking up, and casting forth again, those things against us, many of which were cast upon us before ever he was called a Quaker, although he was about 30 Years or more amongst us, and hath not yet granted that he was Erroneous in any of the Ar∣ticles of Faith, commonly called, the Simpliciter Credenda; for he saith in his Antichrists and Sadduces, p. 43.I know no Principles I now hold, but I am able to prove, I have held them ever since I came among the People called Quakers, as touching all the Articles of Faith, commonly called the Simpliciter Cre∣denda.—And indeed the greatest Mistakes that I find I have been under, were my misunderstanding these places of Scripture, Matth. 28.19. and 1 Cor. 11.26. For, saith he, I remain Constant to my for∣mer Principles, with respect to these great Doctrines of the