An answer to Mr. Lowth's letter to Dr. Stillingfleet in another letter to a friend.


Licensed, April 1. 1687.
AN ANSWER TO Mr. Lowth's LETTER TO Dr. Stillingfleet.
In another Letter to a FRIEND.
LONDON, Printed for Randal Taylor, near Stationers Hall. MDCLXXXVII.
An Answer, &c.SIR,BEcause you had so often desired it, I have at last forced my self to turn over Mr. Lowth's Letter to Dr. Stillingsleet. I found it a very tedious and uneasie Task: You had been almost as kind, if you had chang'd your Pennance, and ordered me to walk to Highgate, with Pease in my Shooes. The Way you sent me proved so rugged and uneven, that every step I took, I fancyed I was treading upon Cinders, and Pibble∣stones. But I am resolved to be revenged; I'le send you another Let∣ter, that shall be as troublesome to you, as that was to me. But I'le promise you for your Comfort, it shall be scarce half so long, and not above a quarter so Ill-natured. I cannot imagine, what should move Mr. Lowth to fall upon the Dean in such a manner: If it were pure Zeal, 'tis great pity, it had not been tempered with more discresion; if there were any thing of particular Pique in the Case, it was not managed with Artifice enough. The World will never swallow the Potion, when the Venom swims on the top of the Cup.
The first known occasion of Mr. Lowth's ingaging of Dr. Stillingsleet, was the Pretence of the Irenicum: A Book set out by the Dean in his younger Years, in which were many passages, which his riper Judg∣ment could not approve. And this he had signified to the World in other Writings which came abroad, before the Publication of Mr. Lowth's Papers. But here you must note, the grand Objection against the Irenicum, had been formerly made by T. G. and his Companions; they had found, as they pretended, that the Design of it was only to Ruine and destroy the Church of England. And that was a thing, which they, Good men! were not able to indure; and therefore out of pure kindness, no doubt, they discover the Plot, and warn us of the danger we had cause to apprehend, from this young brisk Presbyterian, that had disguised

himself in Irenicum Armour. The Truth of it is, they had reason enough to be very desirous to be delivered from a troublesome Adversary. They saw by experience they were not able to oppose his force; and, to secure themselves, they found it necessary, if possible, to give him a Diversion. And this seasonable assistance, Mr. Lowth very wisely affords them, by fomenting the Jealousies they had cunningly raised.
In his Treatise concerning the Subject of Church-Power, besides some insinuations in the Book it self to the same purpose, there is a Letter to Dr. Stillingfleet, &c. Printed after that to the Reader, wherein he is imperiously Summoned, and little less than Commanded, to satisfy the Church of God, by a recantation as publick as his Error, Scandal, and Offence: And then he is gravely admonished, to consider, that he has not erred in the Leviora Evangelii, and that the