The dead tearme. Or, VVestminsters complaint for long vacations and short termes Written in manner of a dialogue betweene the two cityes London and Westminster. The contentes of this discourse is in the page following. By T. Dekker.


The Principall matters contay∣ned in this discourse.A Short Encomiasticke speech in praise of Charing∣crosse.The sinnes of Westminster.The sinnes of London.The Buildings of Westminster and London.The Names of all the Kings and Queenes that lie buried in Westminster.Westminsters complaint.Vacations and Tearmes compared.A paradox in praise of going to Law.A paradox in praise of a Pen.Londons answere to Westminster.Paules steeples Complaint.The walkes of Paules described.The Stewes on the Banke-side, and the Suburbe-houses of iniquity at 〈…〉 compared together.A paradox in 〈◊〉 of 〈◊〉.An Inuectiue against 〈◊〉.The Originall of London.A description of 〈◊〉 bridge-Fayre.A merrie lest of two London Porters performed there, a∣bout burying of a Londo•••.To the very Woorthy, Learned, Iuditious, and Noble Gentleman, Syr Iohn Harrington Knight.SIR, the Loue (which your immor∣tall Ariosto tels to the world) that you really beare to Diuine, (but now Poore and Contemned) Poesie, hath a long time made me an Honorer of those bright ascen∣ding Vertues in you, which those Holy and Pure Flames of Her haue kindled in your bo∣some. Happy you are by Birth, Happy, by your bringing vp, but most happy in that the Muses were your Nurses, to whome you haue beene so tender, that they make you an Elder sonne and Heyre of their Goodliest Possessions. So that your Loue to Them, hath drawne from Others, an Honourable Loue and Regarde of you. The Path which True Noblenesse had wont (and ought) to tread, lyes directly before you: you haue beene euer, and are now in the way, which emboldens me to presume, that as our Greatest Commanders will not disdaine to instruct e∣uen Fresh-water souldiers in the Schoole-poynts of war, so (out of your Noble disposition) you will vouchsafe to viewe the labours of so dull a Pen, as This that writes, vnto you. Two Citties haue I summoned to a Parley, and of their great Enter-view haue I chosen you to be Arbi∣ter. It is Boldnes in me, I confesse, but it is the Boldnes, of my Loue, referring which (and my selfe) to your wor∣thy Censure, I Rest.
Deuoted to you in all seruice, Thomas Dekker.Westminsters speech to London.O Thou goodliest Queene, euen ouer the greatest Citties! How glad am I (O London) that wee two are met together? For now will I poure my sorrows into thy bosome. Thou art Reuerend for thy Age, (as béeing now, two thousand sea∣uen hundred and fouretéene yeares old, which is more then my selfe, am, by a thousand, six hundred and foure yeares) for I am but one thousand, one hundred, and tenne yeares of age.) Thou art Grandam almost to this whole Kingdome: A blessed Mother thou art, for no lesse then one hundred and thréescore Emperours, Kinges, and Queens, hast thou borne in thy Wombe. Healthfull thou art of bo