The bucolicks of Baptist Mantuan:  in ten eclogues. / Translated out of Latine into English, by Tho: Harvey Gent.


THE BUCOLICKS OF BAPTIST MANTUAN IN TEN ECLOGUES.
Translated out of Latine into ENGLISH, BY THO: HARVEY Gent.
Hor. de Art. Poet.Nec verbum Verbo curabis reddere—
LONDON, Printed for Humphrey Moseley, and are to be sold at his Shop at the Princes Armes in S. Pauls Church-yard. 1656.
TO The most Accomplish'd and In∣comparable, The LADY ƲRANIA, Divinest of the Nine Sisters The MUSES.Exquisite Lady,WHose singular Perfections are sub∣lim'd beyond your Sex; Because the Dedication of Books is almost out of fashion with us (Augustus and Moecenas being long since extinct) and few favourers of Learning (especially divine Poësie) surviving, except your noble self, I have presumed to dedicate to your hand and Patronage, the Version of those Juvenalia, compos'd by the (women-displeasing) Poët Man∣tuan, and by him disposed into Ten Eclogues. And although (perhaps) I might have found some eminent Ladies for my Patronesses nearer

home, yet very few I doubt (scarce one of a thousand) but would have conceiv'd them∣selves so deeply concern'd in the fourth Eclogue, that these my labours must have despair'd of any benigne aspect from them. But your Excellent self (inhabiting another Region, soaring on the top of Pernassus, and rarified with the Soveraigne Influence of that perfu∣med Aire) is so free from Passion, clear in Judgement, and candid in Censure, that I nothing doubt of your Acceptance, Protection and Pardon. To you therefore (my tutelary Patroness) I dedicate these my Labours, which under your Name and Patronage shall be transmitted unto the courteous acceptance of the benevolent Reader,
BY Your La: most humble Servant, Tho: Harvey.TO THE LEARNED AND JUDICIOUS, Sir Marmaduke Lloyd KNIGHT.SIR,IT was mine hap (rather happiness) not long since to present you with the Poet Mantuan accoutred in his owne weeds and language. I then told you my desire to render him in English: It is now done; and represented to your judicious view: Whence it is derived to the Reader,
BY Your humble Servant, Tho: Harvey.TO THE READER in generall.Generous Reader,I Here present to thy perusal the Ten Eclogues of the Poet Mantuan; wherein are many remark∣able passages, as well Divine as Morall, not found (perhaps) in any other Author of this kinde: All which I leave unto thy judicious observation in reading over the Book it self. For I love not to prejudice the matter by a too tedious Epistle, which dulls the appetite, and defers expectancy: Both which I dislike in my self and others. Yet at present, for avoiding of violent Censures and virulent aspersions, which some women (not half so candid as many of their Sex) might perhaps blurre me with for this my labour; give me leave (for this once onely to inlarge my self a little by way of Apology, That in some sort I may vindi∣cate the Author and my self (his Interpreter) for being so (seeming) Satyrically invective against