The parable of the top-knots


THE PARABLE OF THE TOP-KNOTS.Licensed according to Order.It was a serene Sun-shine Morning that Dame Nature came forth from her Retirements, to take a Survey of her Works, and recreate her self with the Prospect of her own beau∣tiful Image scatter'd through the Universe: She beheld the Sun, that glorious Fountain of Light casting abroad his Splendors with an unveiled Countenance; but the more modest Moon shroud∣ed above half her Face under a Mask, unwilling to be exposed to the lascivious Eye of every Endymion, she saw the rest of the Planets and Staps bashfully twinkling their innocent Glan∣ces at each other, and on all the World; she travers'd the Elements, and observ'd every thing kept the Order which she had first appointed it. But she fix'd a more particular Eye on Man, the Master-piece of all her Works, the Masterless Epitome of the whole Creation; and calling to mind his primitive Perfections, with the Tragical Story of his Fall, she fetch'd a deep Sigh, which made the Earth to tremble. Whilst she was pensively busied in this Con∣templation, I perceiv'd her Brows suddenly knit, and she gave a start, which put all the Elements into a Disorder. Looking about me to see what was the Occasion of this violent Passion, I beheld a LADY passing by her, dress'd Cap-a-pe after the present mode: Upon which I heard the Venerable Matron break forth into these Expressions;
Bless me said she! what uncouth Object is this invades my Eyes! a thing so forreign to all the known Species of Beings! Or am I superanuated and some new Power usurp'd my Place, to forge the World again, and hammer out such Forms as ne're before were rank'd in the great List of all my Works? Stay thou bold Phantasm! tell me what thou art? With that the Lady turn'd about, and made her this Answer.
Lady. You are merrily disposed Madam, and discover the Brilliant of Language in your Ex∣pressions: I am pleas'd with your Raillery; but pray What News from Paris? In what Arroy did the Dauphiness appear last Ball? I am told, my Commode is a Tire too low, as they adjust it at the French Court.
Mature. Am I a-dream'd, or has the Multi∣tude of Years impair'd my Sight and Judg∣ment? The Voice is Womans, but for the prating Figure I want a Name; I see a moving Pyramid of Gayities, a walking Toy-shop, a speaking Gallimaufry of Ribbons, Laces, Silks and Jewels, as if some upstart mimick Nature had been at work on purpose to upbraid my Skill and

tell me that in framing Woman I left out the Essentials.
Whilst Dame Nature was thus expostulating the Case with her self, I heard a sudden Noise rais'd behind me, at which looking that way, I saw Heraclitus Ridens standing in a Corner, ready to break his Twatling string, he was so big with Laughter; 'tis a fine time of day, said he, with Women, when Nature her self will not own 'em, as if she were ashamed of her Productions: Do but mind yonder Lady she has spent five Hours this Morning in Rigging and Careering her self for publ