An answer to Dr. Stillingfleet's Irenicum by a learned pen.


ANSWER
TO
Dr. Stillingfleet's IRENICUM:
By a Learned Pen.
Sed hoc quidem affirmare non vereor, quod heu nimium
tristis Experientia jampridem docuit, sensim inter eo∣dem
& pari munere sacro fungentes, ordinem Divi∣num,
in gradum humanum, & hunc gradum, ruptis
verorum purorum Canonum vinculis, in tyrannidem
manifestam, &, si restitutam Ecclesiam malumus,
abolendam evasisse. Theod. Bezae Resp. Sarav. de
Ministr. Evang. grad. cap. 15. à calce.LONDON,
Printed for Richard Janeway in Queens-head▪
Alley in Pater-noster Row. 1680.
TO THE
READER.THE World may know, that this Treatise,
however little in bulk, and as little in
it's own eyes, yet presumes not to walk
abroad, after so long confinement, with∣out
the perusal and approbation of several very
Learned and Judicious Men, as skilfull in the
Controversies of Church-Government as most
of their Age. If any demand why a posthumous
piece shall need to be anonymous too? Its answer∣ed,
that though the worthy and much lamented Au∣thor
hath been a Dead Man ever since 1662. Yet
there may be Reasons which concern the living why it
should be so. If another ask, why the lists are enter∣ed
so late, after 20 years silence? Ans. Better late
than never. And as Diogenes said of Dineing, A
Rich Man when he will, and a poor Man when he
may; so say I of Printing. The Hebrew servant
who refused his liberty in that year of Jubilee, when
he might have had it, was to be a slave for ever. But
the greatest Question is yet behind, and it is about the
seasonableness of this Work. Wherefore, if any shall
say with Paul to the Priest, withdraw thine hand:
this is not a time to plead for a Jus Divinum of
Church-Government, when the Church it self, is
like to be swallowed up of Popery; even the Holy

City trod under foot of the Gentiles; and our Com∣mon
Enemy be glad to see Protestant against Pro∣testant
(that they may divide the spoil) and so great
a Champion of the Protestant Cause assailed. To
this several things must be said: 1. As some may
write for their way, when they will, (as I have said)
why should others neglect the year of Release, which
falls out but once in an Age? 2. But if you would
know why we venture on offending Episcopacy, by
asserting the principles of Presbytery, when Pope∣ry
so pretends to be the Ascendant. Truly, there's
but little reason to stick at this; Partly because the
Reformed Churches generally look on Prelacy as a
limb of Popery; and partly to the grief of our hearts
we see many of those men fallen in so kindly
with that interest, that it causeth great thoughts in
heart: I mean, not so much by the Popish doctrines
that many of them vent, as by a more general pallia∣ting
of the late hellish, popish plot, to murther our
King, and introduce the Romish Religion into these
Nations. There being no person more ingrateful to
some of them than Dr. Oates, the first and great Dis∣coverer
of the Plot; no discourse more unsavoury to
them than the discove