A sermon preached in the cathedrall church of Durham, Iuly, 7. 1628. By Peter Smart


A SERMON PREACHED IN THE CATHEDRALL CHVRCH OF DVRHAM, IULY, 7, 1628.
BY PETER SMART.
PSAL. 31.7. V.I hate them that hold of superstitious vanities.Printed in the Yeare, 1640.
Psalme, 31. part of the 7. verse.IN the cōmon translation, I have hated them that hold of superstitious vanities.
In the n•w translation, Them that regard lying vanities.
In the Geneva transla∣tion, Them that give them¦selves to deceitfull vani∣ties: whereupon they give this good note. This aff•ction ought to be in all Gods childr•n, to hate whatsoever thing is not granted upon Gods word, as deceitfull and vaine.
Such are all humane Traditions, Ethelothreskiai, superstitious will-worships the inventions of mans braine.
The vulgar Latine hath Odisti, thou O God hatest. And Vatablus hath, Odi observantes vanitates fru∣stra, or Vanitates mendacij, vaine vanities, or vani∣ties of a lye. That is saith hee;
Odi observantes opera qua prae se ferunt vanitatem & mendacium: id est eos qui superstitioni student, & ea observant, quae à vero Dei cultu animos piorum a∣vocant.
I hate them that observe workes carrying a shew of, or which vphold and countenance vanity and falshood. That is, hate the followers and favourers of superstiti∣on,

observing things which with-draw godly mindes, from the true worship of God.
Now whereas some have Odi, other Odisti, God hateth, or I hate; they are all one, to one effect, for we m•st hate what God hateth, we must love what God loveth; we must apply our selves to Gods will, and conforme our selves to the similitude of God, af•er whose image we are made, as much as we can.
Be you perfect, saith our Saviour, as your heavenly Father is perfect. Therefore wee must hate with a perfect hatred, whatsoever God hateth: as David did, Psal. 139.21. ver.
Doe not I hate them ô Lord that hate thee? Doe not I earnestly contend with those that rise vp against thee: Yea I hate them with a perfect hatred, or vnfeined ha∣tred, I count them mine enemies.
On which words one observeth well• The Pro∣phet teacheth vs boldly to contemne all the hatred of the wicked, and friendship of the world, when they would hinder vs from serving God sincerely•
God is good, yea goodnesse it selfe; Therefore it is not possib•• but God should love best that which •s most like himselfe, and hate the contrary: So must we do, not love our selves, or that which is like our selves, for we are naught.
Omnis homo mendax, every man is a lyer, and the imaginations of mans heart are onely evill continually saith God.
Therefore we must not love but hate our ow•e imaginations, inventions, and lyes; and love God who is good, and Christ who is truth, vnder

whose lips, no vanity, no guile, no lye can lie.
As a Father saith, expounding my text: Recte veritas odit vanitatem, quia vanitas in falsitate con∣sistit, odisse enim dicitur id quod reprobat.
Christ being truth, must needs hate vanity, because vanity consists in fal