Divine contentment, or, A medicine for a discontented man and a confession of faith, and other poems upon several subjects / by Edward Manlove ...


Imprimatur
Ex Aedib. Lamb.March. 6. 1666/7DIVINE Contentment: OR A MEDICINE for a Discontented Man: AND A Confession of FAITH: And other POEMS upon several SUBJECTS.
By EDWARD MANLOVE of Ashborne in the County of Derby ESQUIER.
LONDON Printed, for Richard Mills at the Pestel and Mortar without Temple Barr. 1667.
To the READER.REad, and peruse, this Poem to prevent,
The prejudice, that comes by Discontent,
Which is a Sin not only Capitall,
But Catholick, and Epidemicall,
Both to, and fro, man's toss'd, with discontent,
Filld with disquiet, and distemperment.
He's full of murmuring, nothing doth him please,
His restless spirit's, like the rageing Seas,
Alwaies tempestuous, full of rage and heat,
Often perplexed, with amazements great.
His troubled heart, is like a little Hell,
Wher's discontent; the Divel loves to dwell.
Then strive O man, against this mortal sin;
Prize contentation; Peace is found therein.
Peruse this Poem; drest in mean attire,
Let true Contenment, be thy hearts desire.
EDW. MANLOVE.A MEDICINE for a Discontented MAN.By Edward Manlove of Ashborn in the County of Derby Esquier.CAst off distrustful, and distracting care,
The love of Riches, brings a sudden snare.
If with thy Wealth, thou do dishonour God,
Twill surely hasten, his Correcting Rod,
Wouldst thou be Rich? Paul for thy pattern take;
Learn thou Contentment, in a low estate,
Content's great gain, unto a godly soul,
Run fast, make hast, to get this Glorious Goale.
Engrave this lesson on thy humble heart,
Lay out thy self, and labour for this Art.
The way to get it; may be best discern'd,
By Gods good word, this lesson, there is learnd.
Then read, and hear, the Gospel full of Grace,
In this transparent glass, behold Gods face.
When read, and heard, remember this thing more,
Safe in thy heart, this sacred treasure store.
This truth's a treasure, all men cannot get;
Then lay it up, in thy cheif Cabinet.
And prize it high, preserve it for thy need,
To curb thy sin, for thou art Adam's seed.
And many Lusts, from thy corrupted heart,
Wage dayly warre, against thy better part.
Then stoutly strive, the mastership to win,
Not by thy strength, thou art a sink of sin.
By prayers, and tears, seek thou for help to him,
That can both help, and pardon all thy sin.
O murmure not; but meekly walk with God,
Make bare thy back; if he lift up the Rod.
And be content; to (his) submit thy will:
For he can sweeten, every bitter Pill.
If thy condition, bitter seem, to thee,
Yet be content; it comes by Gods decree;
Who knowes thy state; and eke this precept gave,
Content your selves, with such things as ye have.
Thou must obey Gods word, it is his will;
At his command, the rageing Sea stood still.
He is thy King; a Loyal Subject be,
Submit unto, his Royal Majestie.
If thou be poor, and pinch'd with Povertie,
Thy God is rich, and can provide for thee.
Ha