The principles of the Protestant religion maintained, and churches of New-England, in the profession and exercise thereof defended, against all the calumnies of one George Keith, a Quaker, in a book lately published at Pensilvania [sic], to undermine them both. / By the minsters of the Gospel in Boston, ; [Nine lines of Scripture texts]


The PRINCIPLES of the PROTESTANT RELIGION MAINTAINED, And Churches of New-England, in the PROFESSION and EXERCISE thereof DEFENDED, Against all the Calumnies of one George Keith, a Quaker, in a Book lately Published at Pensilvania, to undermine them both.
By the Ministers of the Gospel in Boston,
Prov. 18. 17.He that is first in his own cause seemeth just; but his neighbour comes and searches him.Phil. 2. 3.Beware of dogs, beware of evil wor|kers, beware of the Concision.2. Thes. 2. 10, 11.They received not the love of the Truth, that they might be saved;And for this cause God shall send them strong delusion, that they should believe al••.BOSTON, in New-England, Printed by Richard Pierce, and sold by the Booksellers. M DC XC.
The Praeface.ALtho' the Church of God, which is a Society of men professing the Truths, & practising the Wayes, of the Lord Jesus Christ, as the Sacred Sriptures have Recommended them unto the world, has in all ages undergone the Batteries of a various assault, yet it has out-liv'd them all. As one while there arise Persecutors with Cain's Club in their Hands, endeavouring by Force to banish out of the world, that Godliness which their sore eyes se•• an Ey-•ore in; so another while, the grand Enemy of our Salvation bring's Hereticks upon the stage, who with Fraud would perswade the people of the Saints of the Most High to unchurch themselves by parting with all the meanes of Communion between them and their God. But hitherto an Abortion has attended all their attempts against that Mount Sion which cannot be removed, but remaineth for ever; the impotent Assailants find themselves but push|ing hard against the great stone, and perish by its Rolling over them. This is among the Glo|rious things which are spoken of thee, O thou City of God!
Indeed the Craft of the old Serpent hath not shown it self in any one thing more marvellous & dangerous, than in his Fitting of Seducers to the several Designs, Peoples, Tempers, which he has had to manage. He knowes, that as the first Creation, so the new Creation, begins with Light•
& he has used a thousand Blinds to keep a saving Light from entring into the souls of men, that being a people of a wrong understanding, He that made them might not have mercy on them. Hence the Deceivers of the former days having been baffled & conquer'd by the Spirit of the Lord lifting up a standard against them, in the Labours of His faithful Servants; the Hydra of Error, has had new sprouts proceeding from it; among which, that of Quakerism seems to be one of the vilest, as well as one of the La|test, and we see therein fulfill'd, what was long since fore-told, That Seduce