His Majesties gracious speech to both Houses of Parliament together with the Lord Chancellor's, delivered in Christ Church Hall in Oxford, the 10th of October, 1665.


 [illustration] C R
HIS MAJESTIES
Gracious
SPEECH
TO
BOTH HOVSES
OF
PARLIAMENT,
Together with the
LORD CHANCELLOR'S
Delivered
In Christ Church Hall in OXFORD,
The 10th of October, 1665.
OXFORD.
Printed by L•••ard Lichfield, Printer to the Vniversity, for
•ohn •i•l and Christopher Barker, Printers to
•i•▪ Majesty. 1665.
HIS MAJESTIES
Gracious
SPEECH
TO
BOTH HOVSES
OF
PARLIAMENT.My Lords and Gentlemen,I am confident you all beleive
that if it had not been absolutely
necessary to consult with you, I
would not have called you toge∣ther
at this time, when the Conta∣gion
hath so spread it selfe over
so many parts of the Kingdom.
I take it for a good Omen to see so good an appearance
this day, and I doubt not every day will add to your
number, and I give you all my Thanks for your com∣pliance
so farre with my desires.

The Truth is, as I entred Upon this Warr by your
advice and encouragement, so I do desire that you may
as frequently as is possible, receive information of the
Conduct and effects of it, and that I may have the
continuance of your cheerfull Supply for the carrying
it on. I will not deny to you, that it hath proved more
chargeable, then I could Imagine it would have been;
the addition they still made to their Fleets beyond their
first purpose, made it unavoydably necessary for Me
to make proportionable preparations, which God
hath hitherto blessed with Success in all encounters.
And as the Enemy have used their utmost endeavours
by Calumnies and fals Suggestions to make themselves
friends, and to perswade others to assist them against Us,
so I have not been wanting to encourage those Princes
who have been wrong'd by the Dutch, to recover their
own by force; and in order thereunto, have assisted the
Bishop of Munster with a Very great summ of ready
Money, and am to continue a supply to him, who is
now in the bowels of their Country with a powerfull
Army.
These Issues, which I may tell you have been made
with very good conduct and husbandry (nor Indeed do
I know that any thing hath been spent that could have
been well and safely saved) I say, this expence will not
suffer you to wonder, that the great supply which you
gave me for this warr in so bountifull a proportion, is
upon the matter already spent: So that I must not only
expect an assistance from you., to carry on this warr,
but such an assistance as may inable Me to defend my

self and you against a more powerfull Neighbour, if he
shall prefer the Friendship of the Dutch before Mine.
I told you when I entred upon this warr, that I
had not such a Brutall appetite, as to make warr for
wars sake, I am still o• the same minde; I have been
ready to receive any propositions that France hath
thought sit to offer to that end, but hitherto nothing
hath been offered worthy My acceptance, nor is the
Dutch less insolent, though I kn