The regenerate mans growth in grace. Shewing, that regeneration of necessitie requireth augmentation in grace. With the motives to move us to grow, signes to know whether we have grown; the lets that hinder our growth; and helps to further our growth. / Preached at a sermon at Lancaster, upon a day of humiliation, by N.B. minister thereof.


THE Regenerate mans growth in GRACE. SHEWING, That Regeneration of necessi∣tie requireth an augmenta∣tion in Grace.
With the Motives to move us to grow, Signes to know whether we have grown; the lets that hinder our growth; and helps to fur∣ther our growth
Preached in a Sermon at Lancaster, upon a day of Humiliation, by N. B. Minister thereof.
Si fulminis aquae fistare caeperit putrescit, fi•gratia∣rum decursus ubi recursus non fucrit.Bern.LONDON, Printed by John Dawson for John Williams. 1646.
TO MY LOVING PARISHIONERS OF LANCASTER.THESE first fruits of my labours, were purposely commen∣ded to the Presse; for the benefit of you my faithfull flock, who were pleased
(about three yeares agoe) to chuse me (minimus Apostolo∣•um) to be your Pastor to feed your soules. And since I came amongst you; I have set my shoulders unto my worke, and according to that poore talent, God hath given me, have laboured to build you up in the know∣ledge of God, in that perfect building, whereof Christ is the corner stone. I blesse God, that I can see the fruits of my labours, in any of you; that you use the means for grace, and the know∣ledge of God, and labour to
thrive herein; hold on, and Gods blessing will guide, and goe along with you; that of babes and children in Christianity▪ you may all grow to be tall Christians in time: therefore have I joy∣ned the following Sermon, to stirre you up to growth in grace. Which shall bee ever my endeavours, and pray∣ers; for God is my witnesse, I have not sought yours, but you, and am resolved with the Apostle to spend and be spent for you. Had I sent this sub∣ject to the publike view, be∣fore these times of troubles;
it would have been distast∣ed, as it was there, where it was first preached; but God (by his speciall providence) having brought me amongst you (a willing people) I am encouraged to recommend it to you, for protection; de∣siring it may finde as much affection with you, now Printed, as it did attention, when it was Preached to you; I confesse my booke is brought forth in a bloody time, when our crying sins have caused clouds to rise every day, and poure down showers of blood on the
land; It comes into a criti∣call age, and will meete with many Annomus, many Antagonists; therefore I have sent it for protection, to my Parish, from whence it came, and where it was most respected; you must expect it will bee carpt at, though it have many friends; yet you know I am not without enemies, who have cast dirt both at you, and me; and shall my booke thinke to escape scot-free; nay, whose malice hath en∣deavoured, to diverse me from you, and to cut a-sun∣der,
the conjugall knot be∣twixt u