The Sicilian usurper a tragedy as it was acted at the Theatre-Royal : with prefatory epistle in vindication of the author, occasioned by this play on the stage / written by N. Tate.


THE Sicilian Usurper: A TRAGEDY, As it was Acted at the Theatre-Royal.
With a Prefatory Epistle in Vindication of the Author, occasioned by the Prohibi∣tion of this Play on the Stage.
Written by N. Tate.
Inultus ut flebo Puer?Hor.
LONDON: Printed for James Knapton, at the Crown in St. Paul's Church-yard. 1691.
Books newly Printed for James Knapton, at the Crown in St. Paul's Church-yard.PLAYS.SQuire of Alsatia.Bury-Fair.True Widow.Amorous Bigott, or, Teague O Devilly the Irish Priest. All Co∣medies, and Written by Tho. Shadwell.Fortune-Hunters, a Comedy; written by Captain Carlile.Widow Ranter, or the History of Bacon in Virginia; a Tragi-Comedy.Forc'd Marriage, or the Jealous Bridegroom; a Tragi-Comedy.Sir Patient Fancy; a Comedy.The feign'd Curtizan, or a Nights Intreague; a Comedy: All four written by Mrs. A. Behn, the Author of the Rover, and Empe∣rour of the Moon.English Frier, or the Town-Sparks, a Comedy; written by Mr▪ Crown, Author of Sir Courtly Nice.Female Prelate, being a History of the Life and Death of Pope Joan; a Tragedy, written by Elk. Settle.Mr. Anthony, a Comedy; written by the Right Honourable the Earl of Orrery, Author of Henry V. and Mustapha.The Devil of a Wife, or a Comical Transformation; written by Mr. Jevon.Deluge, or the Destruction of the World; an Opera.Don Carlos, a Tragedy.Friendship in Fashion, a Comedy.Titus and Berenice, a Tragedy, with a Farce called The Cheats of Scapin; all three written by Mr. Tho. Otway.The Spanish Frier, or the Double Discovery, written by Mr. Dryden.Circe, a Tragedy, written by Charles D'Avanant, LLD.Anthony and Cleopatra, a Tragedy, written by Sir Charles Sedley, Bar.Lucius Igunius Brutus, a Tragedy, written by Mr. Lee.The Siege of Babylon, written by Samuel Pordage, EsqThe Sicilian Usurper, a Tragedy, written by Mr. Nath. Tate, with a Prefatory Epistle in Vindication of the Author, occasioned by the prohibition of this Play on the Stage.Citherea, or the Enamouring Girdle; by Mr. John Smith.The English Monarch, an Heroick Tragedy; by Tho. Rymer, EsqA Congratulatory Poem to His Highness the P. os O. on his coming into England.A Congratulatory Poem to Q. M. on her coming into England.An Ode on the Anniversary of the Kings Birth.An Ode on the Kings Return from Ireland; all written by Tho. Shad∣well, Poet Laureat, and Hiostoriographer-Royal.Governour of Cyprus, or the Loves of Virotto and Dorothea, a No∣vel, in Twelves.The Wanton Frier, or the Irish Amour, 1st & 2d part, a Novel, in Twel.The History of the Inquisition, as it is Exercised at Goa; written in French by the Ingenious Monsieur Dellon, who laboured 5 years under those Severities, with an account of his Deliverance. Translated into English. Quarto, price 1 s.Some Observations concerning Regulating of Elections for Parlia∣ment, humbly Recommended to t