An historical account of the expedition against the Ohio Indians, in the year 1764. Under the command of Henry Bouquet, Esq: colonel of foot, and now brigadier general in America. : Including his transactions with the Indians, relative to the delivery of their prisoners, and the preliminaries of peace. : With an introductory account of the preceeding campaign, and battle at Bushy-Run. : To which are annexed military papers, containing reflections on the war with the savages; a method of forming frontier settlements; some account of the Indian country, with a list of nations, fighting men, towns, distances and different routs. : The whole illustrated with a map and copper-plates. / Published from authentic documents, by a lover of his country.


AN HISTORICAL ACCOUNT OF Colonel BOUQUET'S Expedition, Against the Ohio Indians in the Year 1764._IN the preceeding introduction, some account hath been given of the sudden, treacherous and unprovok'd attack, made by the Indians upon the frontiers of Pennsylvania, Maryland, and Virginia, soon after the publication of the general Peace, at a time when we were but just begin|ing to respire from our former calamities, and looked for an approach of quiet on every side. The principal transactions of the cam|paign 1763 have likewise been briefly recapitulated, and the reader informed by what means the editor became possess'd of the valuable papers, which have enabled him to bring the history of this Indian war to a conclusion, and fur|nished the materials of the following sheets.
COLONEL BOUQUET, as before mentioned, not having a sufficient number of troops to garrison the different posts, under his command, and at the same time to cross the Ohio and take advantage of the dejection into which he had thrown the enemy, by the defeat at Bushy-Run, was obliged to restrain his

operations to the supplying the forts with provisions, ammunition and other necessaries.
IN the execution of this service, he received no annoyance from the enemy, for they now saw themselves not only forced to give up their designs against FORT-PITT; but, retreating beyond the Ohio, they deserted their former towns, and abandoned all the country between Presque-Isle and Sanduski; not thinking themselves safe till they arrived at Muskingam.
HERE they began to form new settlements, and remained quiet during the winter. But, in the mean time, having supplied themselves with powder &c. from the French traders, (and now flattering themselves that the great distance of their settlements would render them inaccessible to our troops) the ensuing spring 1764 presented these savage enemies afresh on our frontiers; ravaging and murdering with their usual barbarity.
TO chastise them for their perfidy, General Gage resolved to attack them on two different sides, and to force them from our frontiers; by carrying the war into the heart of their own country. With this view, he destined a corps of troops to proceed under Col. Bradstreet, to act against the Wi