Orders set downe by the court of Lord Mayor and Aldermen of the city of London, concerning the rates of carriages with carrs within this city and the liberties thereof, to continue untill further order be taken in that behalf.


February 15. 1654. Orders set down by the Court of Lord Mayor and Aldermen of the City of LONDON, Concerning the Rates of Carriages with Carrs Within this City and Liberties thereof, to continue untill further Order be taken in that behalf.WHereas daily complaint is made by Merchants and other Citizens, of the ex∣cessive Rates demanded and received by Carmen, above what is reasonable and hath been limited and appointed for Carriages within this City and Liber∣ties: Now upon due consideration had as well of former times as of the pre∣sent, wherein the prices of some commodities of necessary and principal use to the Carmen are risen, and consequently require some increase of the Rates heretofore set for their labour and carriage; It is therefore ordered by this Court, That all Carmen trading or working with Carres in the City of London and Liberties thereof, shall and may demand and take for every carriage or load of the commodities under mentioned, the Rates hereafter following, and shall not exceed the same upon pain to be strictly punished and proceeded against for every offence to the contrary; That is to say,
1. FIrst, from any the Wharfs between the Tower and London-bridge, to Tower-street, Grace∣churchstreet, Fanchurchstreet, Bishopsgatestreet with∣in, Cornhill, and places of like distance up the hill with xviij C weight, not exceeding xxiij C weight.
In which may be included,
Two punchions of Prunes, two bales of Ma∣cher, twenty barrels of Figs, two fats of Fusti∣ans, five ordinary sacks of Cotton-woolls of Smyrna, and three extraordinary; as bags of Cyprus wooll, butts of Currans, great butts of Oyles, three chests of Sugars, eight bags of Al∣lums, one laste of Flax, one laste of Hemp, and and other goods of the like kinde and weights, for every Load—xx d.
And for Seacols the Load—xij d
2. Also from any the Wharfs aforesaid, To
Broadstreet, Lothbury, Old-jury, Bassishaw, Cole∣manstreet, Ironmongerlane, St. Laurence-lane, Milk∣street, Aldermanbury, Cheapside, Woodstreet, Friday∣street, Breadstreet, and places of like distance, for the like weight of xviij C not exceeding xxiij C
For the goods aforesaid, and others of the like kinde for every Load—xxij d
〈…〉5. Also from any the Wharfs aforesaid, To
Broadstreet, Lothbury, Old-jury, Bassishaw, Colemanstreet, Ironmonger lane, St. Laurence lane, Milkstreet, Aldermanbury, Cheapside, Woodstreet, Fridaystreet, Breadstreet, and places of the like distance, for any of the said goods of the same quantity and weight, for every load—xx d
6. Also from any the Wharfs aforesaid, To
Towerstreet, Gracechurchstreet, Fanchurch-street, Bishopsgatestreet within, Cornhill, and other places of like distance up the hill with viij C weight, not exceeding xiiij C weight;
In which may be inclu