A reply to a piece wrote last year, by Mr. Israel Holly, Pastor of a church in Suffield; entitled "The New-Testament interpretation of the Old, relative to infant baptism." Wherein another short attempt is made toward bringing that controversy to a happy issue. / By Isaac Backus, Pastor of a church in Middleborough. ; [Two lines of Scipture texts]


A REPLY To a Piece wrote last Year, By Mr. ISRAEL HOLLY, Pastor of a Church in SUFFIELD; ENTITLED The NEW-TESTAMENT Interpretation of the Old, relative to INFANT BAP∣TISM.
WHEREIN Another short Attempt is made toward bringing that Controversy to a happy Issue.
By ISAAC BACKUS, Pastor of a Church in Middleborough.
Speaking the Truth in Love,
Eph. 4.15.Rebuke a wise Man and he will love thee,
Prov. 8.1.NEWPORT: Printed, for the AUTHOR, by SOLOMON SOUTHWICK. M,DCC,LXXII.
To Mr. ISRAEL HOLLY.DEAR SIR,YOUR piece which was printed last fall, at New-London, entitled The New-Testa∣ment interpretation of the Old, relative to in∣fant baptism,—written letter-wise to Mr. Isaac Backus, occasioned by his late answer to Mr. F—'s letter, has further confirmed me in a sentiment which I adopted many years ago, viz. That a very great part of the controver∣sies, among good men, are caused by their mis∣taking each others ideas. But there are so ma∣ny things in our dark world still to keep them in these mistakes, that nature is ready to say, 'tis in vain to make any further attempts to rectify them. Yet other considerations have induced me to make another short trial, to shew you wherein you have mistaken the scriptures, as well as the ideas of your friend, concerning bap∣tism,
You tell me, that the thing which moved you to write against me, was my holding forth, That in order to maintain infant baptism, you con∣strue and interpret the New-Testament by the Old, and not the Old by the New, p. 4. Which you think is contrary to fact with regard to your∣self,
and you suppose that if we were willing to receive the New-Testament interpretation of the Old, we also should see warrant for that practice; and you close with giving public notice to me and others, that if we should pretend to answer you and not attend directly to your ground-work, you should probably look upon it so impertinent as not to be worthy of a reply, P. 71. I rea∣dily join issue with you here, and desire that all impertinences may be dismissed from this dispute.
Let then the New-Testament interpretation of the Old be the ground-work of all our pro∣ceedings; and how do you take that? Why, in general you say, There was a spiritual glory then in being, although veiled with a type. there was then the same spiritual good under the type, that there is now without the type. And all who did not stick in the letter, saw that spiritual glory, and embraced that spiritual good, P. 7, 8. I say the same with all my heart. You observe that the covenant of legal services and ceremonies, considered in themselves, were weak and insufficient to justify and save those who attende