An apologie for the ministry and its maintenance wherein is set forth the necessity, dignity and efficacy of a gospel-ministry against the Socinians, Swenckfieldians, Weigelians, Anabaptists, Enthusiasts, Familists, Seekers, Quakers, Levellers, Libertines and the rest of that rout ... / by Tho. Hall.


AN APOLOGIE
FOR THE
MINISTRY,
and its
Maintenance:
Wherein is set forth the Necessity,
Dignity, and Efficacy of a Gospel-Ministry;
against the Socinians, Swenckfieldians, Weigelians,
Anabaptists, Enthusiasts, Familists, Seekers, Quakers,
Levellers, Libertines, and the rest of that Rout.
Here you have many Texts of Scripture explained, all the
Cavils of the Adversaries (of any weight) refelled, the Equity
of Tythes by many Arguments evinced, and the Iniquity of
such as seek sacrilegiously to remove them is demonstrated, and
the most material Cavils against them are succinctly, yet
fully answered.
By Tho. Hall, B. D. and Pastor of Kingsnorton.
Jer. 3. 15. I will bring you to Sion, and I will give you Pastors
according to my heart, which shall feed you with Knowledge
and Understanding.1 Cor. 9. 7. Who goeth a Warfare at any time at his own Charges?
Who planteth a Vineyard, and eateth not of the fruit of it? Or who
feedeth a flock and eateth not of the milk of the flock?LONDON:
Printed by A. W. for Joseph Cranford at the Castle and Lyon
in St. Paul's Church-yard. 1660.
To the Right Worshipfull, and his much honoured Cousin, the Lady LUCY GRANTHAM
of Ratcliffe upon Soare, in the County of
Nottingham, Grace and Peace.Madame:BEnefits (we say) are binders, and
every Favour received makes the Re∣ceiver
a Debtor: If this be so, I
must needs acknowledge my self deeply
indebted to You for those many reall
Favours which from time to time You
have shewed to me, and to my Sonns that have been
Your Chaplains. And, that I may not wholly dye
ungratefully, I have sent you a Scho•ars Gift, a Paper∣present,
as a Testimony of my best Respects unto Your
Ladyship, who have been so eminent a Friend and
Patroness to us of the Ministry; and that in a time when
so many hate us, rob us, revile us, without a cause. You
have been more like a Nursing mother than a Friend to many of your neighbou•ing Ministers, especially
where their means is low: Your Ladyships readiness
to contribute to the augmenting of the Maintenance of
Ministers, and setting up of Preaching, where there
is none; Your respectfull Entertainment of the Min•sters of Christ weekly at Your house; Your bounty in parting with considerable Summes towards

the breeding of ingenuous and hopefull Children for
the work of the Ministry; Your tender respect especi∣ally
to the Orphans of Ministers; Your late disbursing
of a considerable Summ at a bare motion of mine
towards the breeding of a very hopefull childe, the son
of a pious and painfull Minister, whose father is now
with God; your great care for their family in Spirituals
as well as Temporals; your constant Morning and
Evening Sacrifice there; and your care to see t