The ethiques of Aristotle, that is to saye, preceptes of good behauoute [sic] and perfighte honestie, now newly tra[n]slated into English


 [illustration] The Ethi∣ques of Ari∣stotle, that is to saye, preceptes of good beha∣uoure and per∣fighte honestie, now newly trā∣slated into English.
The preface HIS RIGHT HO∣norable Lorde and Ma∣ster Edward Earle of Der∣by, His humble and obedi∣ente Seruaunte Ihon Wylkinson, Sa∣luteth.ALthough the fe∣ble and werie bodye, (right honorable lord and Master) be satisfi¦ed with a restinge place: yet the mind cannot be so quieted or re¦posed, but that of necessitie it is euermore busi. Therfore it shal be good for euery mā to prouide for some vertuouse occupiyng, against the multitude of phāta sies, wherin may be fixed the la¦bour of the mind, so that it stray

not to ferre in vaine. I therfore intending to discharge a part of my duty toward your Lordship haue translated this boke of the Ethiques of Aristotle, out of J∣talian into our vulgare toung, not for that your Lordship hath not seene them herebefore in the Italian tōg, but for the instru∣ctiō and edifiyng of others that haue not sene them in Englishe. Yet I can notboldli besech your Lordshippe nor others being of more knowledge then I am to allowe this my symple dooyng: but rather to correct thesame, and not to iudge or deme in me a∣ny presum∣cion.
The ende of the preface.The Ethiques of Aristotle.Of Artes. The first Chapiter.EUery art, eue∣ry doctrine, e∣ueri operaciō, and euery ele∣ction, semethe to require sō∣thynge to bee good: thē it was wel said of the Philosophers. Good is that whi¦che euery thing desireth. Accor∣ding vnto diuerse artes, diuers intencions: Some ben finished in workes, & other that bene no workes. Although they be ma∣ny Artes or craftes, euerye one hath his finall intencion.
¶ Example, Phisike intendeth helth, & knighthod victory, ship

worke intendeth sailynge: Go∣uernance of housolde intendeth to haue riches. There be Artes generall and artes also that bee speciall. ¶ Example, The sci¦ence of knighthode is generall vnder the whiche ben conteined other artes particulars, as Sa delars, Armorers, & other craf∣tes which may be nedeful in ba∣tel, and these vniuersal be more worthy & more noble than bene the particulars, because, the particulars bee for the vniuer∣salles, as thynges whyche bee made by nature, and beene an vtter and fynall vnderstan∣dynge, vnto the whiche bene or∣deyned al the operacion of these craftes. As a man that shoteth at his pricke for his marke: So euery craft hath his final intent

whiche doth set forth the worke. Then the art Ciuil that teacheth to rule Cities is principall and soueraine of all other artes, for vnder her ben conteined diuerse artes. Rethorique is also righte noble, for why? she dothe dispose and set in order al the other that bee conteined vnder her: The fulnesse whereof and end, is the fulnes and intēt of al the other. Than the wealth that foloweth hir science is the welth of man, Bec