His Excellency John Lord Lovelace, Baron of Hurley, capt. general and governour in chief of the provinces of Nova Casarea or New-Jersey, New York and territories depending thereon in America, and vice-admiral of the same. His speech to the General Assembly of New-Jersey, conven'd at Amboy the 4th day of March, 1708.


His Excellency John Lord Lovelace, Baron of Hurley, Capt General and Governour in chief of the Provinces of Nova 〈◊〉 or New-Jersey, New York and Territories depending thereon in America, and New-〈◊〉, of the same. HIS SPEECH To the General Assembly of New-Jersey, conven'd at Amboy the 4th day of March, 1708.Gentlemen;I Am very sensible of the great Difficulties that do attend this honourable Imployment in which her Majesty hath been pleased to place me, the Go|vernment of this Province; but I hope you will never fail to assist me to serve the Queen and her People here.
Her Majesty hath shewn in the whole course of her Reign, a Reign glorious beyond Example, how much she aims at the good and prosperity of her People. She hath, with indefatigable pains, united her two Kingdoms of England and Scotland, and she continues the same application to unite the Minds of all her Subjects. This is her great Care, and ought to be that of those whom she de|putes to govern those distant Provinces, which are not so happy by their S•i|tuation to be under her more immediate Government.
I cannot set before me a better Pattern; I shall endeavours therefore to re|commend my self to you by following (as far as I 〈◊〉 able) her Example.
I perswade my self, I shall not give you any 〈◊〉 cause to be uneasie under my Administration; and I hope you will not be uneasie with one another. 〈◊〉 past Differences and Annimosities be buried in Oblivion, and let us all seek the Peace and Wellfare of our Country.
Her Majesty would not be burthensom to her People, but there being an absolute necessity that the Government be supported, I am directed to recom|mend that matter to your Consideration▪ You know best what the Province can conveniently raise for its support, and the easiest Methods of raising it.
There is another thing also will require your Consideration, the 〈◊◊〉 Law for the putting the Militia upon some better 〈◊〉 tha• it is at 〈◊〉 with as much case to the People as possible.
I shall only add, That I shall be always ready to give my assent to whatever Laws you shall find necessary for promoting Religion and V•rtue, for the en|couragement of Trade and Industry, for the discouragement of Vice and Pro|faneness, and for 〈◊〉 other matter or thing relating to the good of the 〈◊〉
To his Excellency John Lord Lovelace, Capt. General & Governor in Chief of the Province of New-Jersey, &c. The humble Address of the General Assembly of New-Jersey.May it please your Excellency;WE esteem it our great happiness that her Majesty has placed a person of so much •emper and Moderation over us, and make no question your Excellency will surmount every Difficulty with Honour and Safety