The Bristol-narrative: or, A just account of the imprisonment and death of John Thompson, a conventicling-preacher there. Given upon oath by Thomas Hobson Gent. Keeper of His Majesties Goal of Newgate, within that city. Wherein the phanatick-relations concerning his usage and death, are found false and impudent


THE Bristol-Narrative: OR, A JUST ACCOUNT OF THE Imprisonment and Death OF JOHN THOMPSON, A Conventicling-Preacher there.
Given upon Oath by THOMAS HOBSON Gent. Keeper of His Majesties Goal of Newgate, within that City.
Wherein the Phanatick-Relations concerning his Usage and Death, are found false and impudent.
LONDON, Printed by William Godbid. M.DC.LXXV.
〈1 page duplicate〉Imprimatur.Ex Aed. Lambethanis, Jun. 1o. 1675.
THO. TOMKYNS.
IN regard that the turbulent Spirit of Phanaticism cannot promote its Interest, or delude the People, unless they are made to have an ill opinion of their Lawful Gover∣nours and Pastours, it hath alway had recourse to Forgery and Lying, as its principal Sanctuary, defending it self, and endeavouring to appear Innocent by other mens reproaches. Which hath ever been the way of upholding Faction; and (although it be most horribly detestable) hath had its dan∣gerous designed Effects in a very great measure, while cre∣dulous men too readily receive and countenance the Authors of malicious Relations. One Example whereof we have in this, that is the occasion of this ensuing Narrative, which his Lordship the Right Reverend Father in God, the Bishop of Bristol hath permitted to be Published to undeceive those, who have been abused by the bold and notoriously false Reports concerning Mr. Thompson's Imprisonment and Death. For whereas it hath by these men been com∣monly discoursed and affirmed, that the said Thompson was by the Bishop's procuring thrown into a filthy Dungeon, where the stench of the place, and of a Jakes near it, together with the want of meat and drink, and other necessaries, had partly poysoned, partly starved him to death; and that his Friends and Acquaintance were for∣bidden to administer to him such things as he needed: The contrary is most true; he having the command of the fairest Lodgings in the Prison, being never unaccompanied or free from Visitants, and scarcely having intermission
from eating and drinking, until he had by a Surfeit (whereof he dyed) made himself uncapable of those plea∣sures to which he had been accustomed. The baseness of these Arts, so unlikely to proceed from men professing so much zeal to Godliness, the following Declaration, sub∣scribed and sworn before the Right Worshipful Ralph Olliffe Esq, Mayor of the said City, will sufficiently manifest.
BRISTOL. 1oMaii, 1675.Right Reverend Father in God, and my very Good Lord;IN Obedience to Your Lordships Com∣mands, and for my own Vindication from those causeless Calumnies which the malicious industry of some evil Agents have scattered far and near concerning me, and my Usage of the Non-conformist Preachers committed to my cha