A narrative of the troubles with the Indians in New-England, from the first planting thereof in the year 1607, to this present year 1677, but chiefly of the late troubles in the two last years, 1675 and 1676.:  To which is added a discourse about the warre with the Pequods in the year 1637. [Part 1] / By W. Hubbard ...


A NARRATIVE OF THE TROUBLES WITH THE INDIANS In
NEW-ENGLAND, from the first planting thereof in the year 1607. to
this present year 1677. But chiefly of the late Troubles in the two last
years, 1675. and 1676. To which is added a Discourse about the
Warre with the PEQUODS In the year 1637.
By W. Hubbard, Minister of Ipswich.
And the Lord said unto Moses, write this for a Memoriall in a
Book, and rehearse it in the ears of Joshua; for I will utterly put out the
Remembrance of Amalek from under heaven.
Exod. 17 14.Wherefore it is said in the book of the Warrs of the Lord, what
he did in the red sea, and in the Brooks of Arnon.
Numb: 21 14As cold waters to a thirst, soul, so is good news from a far
Country.
Prov. 25.25.Expressa Imag•, et
quasi speculum quoddam vitae humanae est historia, quia talia vel
similia semper possunt in mundo accidere.
Thucyd.Historia tradit quae facta sint, et quae semper sint
futura, donec cadem manet homi∣num natura.
idem.Historiae cognitio tutissima institutio, et praeparatio
est ad actiones politicas, et illu∣stris Magistra ad perferendas fortunae
vices.
Polyb.Published by Authority.
 BOSTON; Printed by John Foster, in the year 1677.
〈1 page duplicate〉〈1 page duplicate〉To the Honourable JOHN LEVERET Esq
Governour of the Colony of the Massachusets; JOSIAH VVINSLOW
Esq Governour of the Colony of Plimouth;
VVILLIAM LEET Esq Governour of the Colony of
Connecticut.NOtwithstanding the great and unvaluable good that hath in all
ages of the World accrued to Mankind by Order and Goverment, yet such is the
depravedness of mans na∣ture, and imperfection of his knowledge, that it is
as well hard to find out, as difficult to maintain, such a Form and Order of
Goverment as will prove a sufficient Fence and security for so great a
treasure as is the common good, and publick safety. After the sad and
long experience of former times, some have thought no means can be found out
so effectual for the upholding and and preserving the same, with all the
sacred and civill rights and privi∣ledges therunto belonging, as a liberty
for people to designe and choose out from among themselves, the persons
that are to be intrusted with those great concerns. Whatever may be said
for the extolling the hap∣piness of them that have such an advantage in
their hands, all that may be comprehended within the compass of such a
power, it is for the pre∣sent in the principal and leading part thereof
devolved upon your selves in all the three Colonies of New-England;
who by the choyce of the free people in those your several Jurisdictions,
are now called to act your se∣veral parts as chief on the publick stage of
Goverment. Ever since you have t