A letter from His Excellency Robert Earl of Essex to the Honourable House of Commons concerning the sending of a commission forthwith to Sir William Waller : wherein His Excellency declareth himself to be confirmed in the justnesse of the cause, so long as he hath one drop of blood in his veins.


A LETTER
From His Excellency,
Robert Earl of Essex,
To
The Honorable House of Commons:
CONCERNING
The sending of a Commission forthwith
To Sir William Waller:
Wherein His Excellency declareth himself to be con∣firmed
in the justnesse of the Cause, so long as he
hath one drop of Blood in his Veins.
Published by Authority.
Printed for Laurence Blaiklock.
January 13. 1644.
A LETTER
From His Excellency
ROBERT Earl of ESSEX,
To the Honorable
House of Commons:SIR,I Received an Order the last
night, to desire me forth∣with
to send a Commission
to Sir William Waller, to
command the Forces of Kent, Surrey,
Sussex and Hampshire, according to an

Ordinance of both Houses; I am so
ready for the advancement of the pre∣sent
service he is now ingaged in, and
my will to satisfie the desire of the Ho∣norable
House of Commons, as that I
have sent down a Commission accor∣dingly:
But finding expressions in that
Order that might intimate a neglect in
me, and being confident of mine own
Integrity to serve both Houses, and to
preserve the good opinion of the house
of Commons, I shall acquaint you that I
sent a Commission by Mr. Nicolls,
which he kept some dayes, and then
wrote earnestly to mee for another
more ample; I wondring why hee
should keep it so long, and then send
for another, deferred my Resolution,
untill I came up; But this Order inter∣vening,
prevented mee of asking the

reason: It is true, the Commission was
not according as I usually grant them
(but it gave him full Authority for the
present service.)
For the Reasons of my Limitations
in the former Commission, I forbear to
give them; But whensoever the Hou∣ses
shall command me, I shall be ready
to make it appear, I did no more then I
ought to do, having received so great a
Trust from the Parliament, in the dis∣charge
of my duty, and then to submit
to their further pleasures.
Sir, I shall desire you to beleeve, it
shalbe my greatest care, so to carry my
self, as that I may give a reall accompt
of my Actions, whensoever it shall
please the Parliament to require it.

The charge I took, was not by my
seeking (I knowing my own imperfe∣ctions)
but not in the least way of Fi∣delity
and constancy, and it was a great
incouragement to me, the noble and
free offers of both Houses, To live and
dye with me; which hath put a great
confidence in me, that I shall never
want your just Protection and Assi∣stance;
And that you will take care of
that Army that hath shewed so much
Faithfulnesse and Resolution in your
services, and that God hath been plea∣sed
of his infinite goodnesse so to pro∣tect;
And for my own part, I am eve∣ry
day so confirmed in the justnesse of
the Cause, that let the strength I have
be never so weak, I shal