A prospectiue glasse to looke into heauen, or The cœlestiall Canaan described Together with the soules sacred soliloquie, and most ardent desire to be inuested into the same. Sung in a most heauenly hymne, to the great comfort of all good Christians, by the Muses most vnworthy, Iohn Vicars.


A PROSPECTIVE GLASSE TO LOOKE INTO HEAVEN, OR The Coelestill CANAAN described.
Together with the SOVLES scred Soliloquie, nd most rdent desire to be inuested into the sme.
Sung in  most heuenly Hymne, to the gret comfort of ll good CHRISTIANS, by the MVSES most vnworthy, IOHN VICARS.
REVEL. 21. 1.
And I sw  new Heuen nd  new Erth.1. COR. 13. 12.
Here, wee see s through  Glsse.LONDON Printed by W. Stnsby for Iohn Smethwicke, nd re to be sold t his Shop in Sint Dunstnes Church-yrd in Fleet-street. 1618.
TO THE RIGHT WORSHIPFVLL SOCIETIE OF THE GOVERNOVRS OF Christs Hospitll, I. V. Dedicteth ll his poore endeuours, nd wisheth the Kingdome of Grce heere, nd the Kingdome of Glorie herefter.
YOur Worships fuours, from my Birth still found;
Hue me in ll my best Endeuours bound:

And, since I Owe more then I Know to Py;
I rest your Worships, to my Dying-dy.
Your Worships in All, lwyes to be commnded, IOHN VICARS.To the Right Worshipfull, Sir IOHN LEMAN, Knight, President of Christs Hospitll, nd Aldermn of LONDON, I.V. wisheth ll erthly Prosperitie, nd the Rell fruition of this Idell description.
REligions Rules nd Ntures Bonds bind All,
To keepe ccount nd true memorill
Of fuours pst or present; lest with shme,
Ingrtitude should Crcke their Credits fme.
Since then (Right worshipful) these Bonds All bind,
This Dutie needs to Mee must be ssign'd;
Who, from your VVorships vndeseruedly
Hue found much fuour nd gret courtesie:
Whose sweete Effects hue my good so effected,
As Blcke Obliuion my not mke neglected.
And since your VVorship worthily is mde
The President, chiefe Pillr, Prop nd Aide
Of Gouernment in tht blest Hospitll
Of Christs poore members, Orphns poore nd smll;

I, therefore ioy, thus to Congrtulte
Your Worships hp, their Helpe so fortunte.
As lso tht I my expresse, in prt,
Some sincere Fruites of my most grtefull Hert:
By Dediction of this my poore Mite,
To your good Worship; due to you by right.
Which, hoping you (Right Worshipfull) will tke
With kind cceptnce: Heu'ns gret King you mke,
A blest Prtker, of tht Miestie,
Which my weke Pen cn here but Typisie.
To your Worship in his Power nd Pryers duely nd d•ti∣fully Deuoted, IOHN VICARSTo the Godly Reder.
SInce, for the most prt, ll men tke delight,
Of nouelties to here, to write, to tell
Of tresures nd of plesures, which excell,
Which best my plese their itching eres nd sight.
And for tht cuse hue mny Cptines stout
By Se nd Lnd (to finde out nd discouer
The dmirble workes of Heuens Arch-mouer)
Truil'd the Globes-circumference bout,
Ye, mny wise Cosmogrphers hue spent
Much time nd truile, cost nd cre to write
The Nture, Mnners, Riches, nd Delight
Of fmous Kingdomes in Erths Continent.
But I, the most vnworthie