[A tragedye or enterlude manyfestyng the chefe promyses of God unto man by all ages in the olde lawe from the fall of Adam to the incarnacyon of the lorde Iesus Christ. Compyled by Johan Bale ...]


Baleus prolocutorIF profyght maye growe, most Christē audyēce.
By knowlege of thynges, whych are 〈…〉,
And here for a tyme. Of moch more 〈…〉
Aduaūtage myght sprynge, by the ser〈…〉¦ses heauenlye.
As those matters are, that the Gospell specyfye.
Without whose knowledge, no man to the truthe 〈…〉
Nor euer atteyne, to the lyfe perpetuall.
For he that knoweth not, the lyuynge God eter〈…〉
The father, the sonne, and also the holye Ghost,
And what Christ suffered, for redempcyon of vs all▪
What he commaunded, and taught in euery coost.
And what he forbode. That man must nedes be lost.
And cleane secluded, from the faythfull chosen sorte.
In the heauens aboue, to hys most hygh dysconfo〈…〉
Yow therfor (good fryndes) I louyngel〈…〉〈…〉
To waye soche matters, as wyll be vttered h〈…〉
Of whome ye maye lo•e, to haue no tryfelin〈…〉
In fantasyes fayned, nor soche lyfe gaudying,
But the thynges that shall, your inwarde stoma〈…〉
To reioyce in God, for your iustyfycacyon,
And alone in Christ, to hope for your saluacyon.
Yea, first ye shall haue, the eternall generacyon.
Of Christ lyke as Iohan, in hys first chapt•• wryght▪
And consequentlye, of man the first creacyon,
The abuse and fall, through hys first ouersyght,
And the rayse agayne, through Gods hygh grace & myg〈…〉
By promyses first, whych shall be declared all,
Then by hys owne sonne, the worker pryncypall.
After that Adam, bywayleth here hys fall,
God wyll shewe mercye, to euery generacyon.
And to hys kyngedome, of hys great goodnesse call,
Hys elected spouse, or faythfull congregacyon,
〈…〉 shall apere, by open protestacyon,
〈…〉 from Christes birthe, shall to hys deathe conclude.
〈…〉ne that therof, wyll shewe the certytude,
Pater coelestis.IN the begynnynge, before the heauens were create,
In me and of me, was my sonne sēmpyternall.
With the holy Ghost, in one degre or estate,
Of the hygh Godhed, to me the father coequall.
〈…〉hys my sonne was, with me one God essencyall,
•••hout separacyon, at any tyme from me.
〈…〉 God he is, of equall dignyte.
〈…〉 the begynnynge, my sonne hath euer be,
〈…〉s father, in one essencyall beynge.
〈…〉e create, by hym in yche degre,
〈…〉& earthe, and haue their dyuerse workynge.
〈…〉 power, was neuer made anye thynge,
〈…〉 wrought. But through hys ordynaunce,
〈…〉e hys strength, and whole contynuaunce.
〈…〉 hym is the lyfe, and the iust recoueraunce,
〈…〉 Adam and hys, whych nought but deathe deserued.
And thys lyfe to men, is an hygh perseueraunce,
Or a lyght of faythe, wherby they shall be saued.
And thys lyght shall shyne, amonge the people darkened,
With vnfaythfulnesse: Yet shall they not with hym take.
•ut of wyllfull hart, hys lyberall grace forsa•e.
Whych wyll compell me, agaynst man for to make,
In my dyspleasure. And sende plages of coreccyon,
Most greuouse and sharpe, hys wanton lus