Virgidemiarum sixe bookes. First three bookes. Of tooth-lesse satyrs. 1. Poeticall. 2. Academicall. 3. Morall.



VIRGIDEMIARVM Sixe Bookes.
First three Bookes, Of Tooth-lesse Satyrs. 1. Poeticall. 2. Academicall. 3. Morall.
 [illustration] 
LONDON Printed by Iohn Harison, for Robert Dexter. 1602.
His Defiance to Enuie.
Nay: let the prouder Pines of Ida feare
The sudden fires of heauen: and decline
Their yeelding tops, that dar'd the skies whilere:
And shake your sturdie trunks ye prouder Pines,
VVhose swelling graines are like be gald alone,
VVith the deepefurrowes of the thunder-stone.

Stand ye secure, ye safer shrubs below,
In humble dales, whome heauns doe not despight:
Nor angrie clouds conspire your ouerthrow,
Enuying at your too-disdainfull hight.
Let high attempts dread Enuy, and ill tongues,
And cowardly shrinke for feare of causles wrongs

So wont big Okes feare winding Yuy-weed:
So soaring Egles feare the neighbour Sonne:
•o golden Mazor wont suspicion breed,
deadly Hemlocks poysoned Potion,
So Adders shroud themselues in fairest leaues:
So fouler Fate the fayrer thing bereaues.

Nor the low bush feares climbing Yuy-twine:
Nor lowly Bustard dreads the distant rayes.
Nor earthen Pot wont secret death to shrine:
Nor suttle Snake doth lurke in pathed wayes.
Nor baser deed dreads Enuy and ill tongues,
Nor shrinks so soone for feare of causelesse wrongs.

Needs me then hope, or doth me need mis-dread:
Hope for that honor, dread that wrongfull spight:
Spight of the partie, honor of the deede,
VVhich wont alone on loftie obiects light.
That Enuie should accoast my Muse and me,
For this so rude, and recklesse Poesie.

VVould she but shade her tender Browes with Bay,
That now lye bare in carelesse wilfull rage:
And trance her selfe in that sweete Extasey,
That rouzeth drouping thoughts of bashfull age.
(Tho now those Bays, and that aspired thought,
In carelesser age, she sets at worse then nought.)

Or would we loose her plumy pineon,
Manicled long with bonds of modest feare:
Soone might she haue those Kestrels proud out gone,
VVhose flightie wings are dew'd with weeter aire;
And hopen now to shoulder from aboue
The Eagle from the stayrs of friendly Ioue

Or list she rather in late Triumph reare
Eternall Trophees to some Conqueror,
VVhose dead deserts slept in his Sepulcher,
And neuer saw, nor life, nor light before:
To lead sad Pluto captiue with my song,
To grace the triumphs he obscur'd so long.

Or scoure the rusted swords of Eluish knighes,
Bathed in Pagan blood: or sheath them new
In misty morall Types; or tell their fights,
VVho mightie Giants, or who Monsters slew.
And by some strange inchanted speare and shield▪
Vanquisht their foe, and wan the doubtfull field.

May be she might in stately Stanzaes frame
Stories of Ladies, and aduenturous knights,
To raise her silent and inglorious name,
Vnto areach-lesse pitch of Prayses hight.
And somewhat say, as more vnworthie done.
VVorthie of Brasse, and hoary Marble stone.

Then might vaine Enu