A journal of the life and travels of Joseph-Bill Packer. Now under sentence of death in the City-Hall of Albany, / written by himself, and published at his request.









A JOURNAL, OF THE LIFE and TRAVELS OF JOSEPH-BILL PACKER.
To the Printers.GENTLEMEN,WHEREAS I am now under sentence of death in the City-Hall of Albany, for having as it is sup|posed, counterfeited the currency of this province; and having scrutinized my conscience, which beareth witness to the truth of what I shall now deliver, of my own free will, which I hope will be published according to my de|sire.
If I were to write the whole of my transactions they would fill a large volume; but in this my journal, I only mean to give a concise and tree narrative of my proceed|ings.
I was born in Connecticut, at a place called Groton, near New-London, in the Year 1720. My parents were reputable people, who, both by example and precept endeavoured to inculcate principles of virtue and honor in me. From my youth I have been an admirer of the operations of nature, and never desisted from enquiring

info any thing that I thought an arcanum until I had ob|tained some idea of it, my thirst after knowledge being insatiable.
When I arrived at the twenty second year of my age, my inclination prompted me to visit the southern colo|nies, I traveled into Virginia, where I resided near sixteen years▪ The principal part of my business was curing cancers; of this art I may justly call myself master, as I have cured every species of them except the sanguine cancer, and even that some times when the blood was not too much infected. I understand the seperation of metals, and was often called upon to examine minerals. In Virginia, Colonel Cheswell, who had lead mines, em|ployed me to work upon lead and copper ore: He died, and Colonel James Bird, who became sole owner of the mines, declined having them worked. From these works, which are situate at a place called New-River, near the line which divides North Carolina from Virginia, I went to Dan River, which I crossed and came to a place called Salisbury, in Roan county, North Carolina. After spend|ing a few days there I steered my course to Meclinburgh, which lies upon the Calava River. This seemed to be a good place for my business; and, as the county was young and the court house then building. I resolved to make that the place of my residence.
HAVING agreed for my board and lodging, and being informed that several persons in the nieghbourhood were afflicted with cancers, I published an advertisement, the purport of which was, that I would undertake to cure them, and if I did not succeed, no money should be de|manded. This had the desired effect, for in a few days I had several patients.
THE 〈◊〉 that I cured was Colonel Lewison, of a can|•••〈…〉 the second, the Widow Canada, who had 〈…〉 afflicted for four years with a cancer near

her nose; the next was one James Mac, he had been distressed with a cancer for upwards of twenty two years, and was, indeed