An humble testimony unto the goodness and severity of God in his dealing with sinful churches and nations, or, The only way to deliver a sinful nation from utter ruine by impendent judgments, in a discourse on the words of our Lord Jesus Christ, Luk. 13, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 / by John Owen.


AN HUMBLE
TESTIMONY
UNTO THE
Goodness and Severity of God in his
Dealing with sinful Churches and
Nations. Or, The only Way to de∣liver
a Sinful Nation from utter Ruine.
BY
Impendent Judgments,
IN A
DISCOURSE
ON THE
Words of our Lord Jesus Christ,
Luk. 13. 1. 2, 3, 4, 5.
Cry aloud, spare not, lift up thy voyce like a
Trumpet, and shew my People their Trans∣gressions,
and the House of Jacob their
Sins. Isa. 58. 1.By JOHN OWEN, D. D.
In publico Discrimine omnis homo Miles est.
LONDON,
Printed for Nathanael Ponder at the Peacock in the
Poultrey, near the Church, 1681.
TO THE
READER.THE ensuing Discourse con∣tains
the Substance of sundry
Sermons Preached in a private Con∣gregation.
Some, who heard them,
considering the Subject-Matter
Treated of, and the Design in them,
with respect unto the present state of
things in this Nation, did judge that
it might be convenient and seasona∣ble
to make them more publick, for
the Use and Benefit of others. But

knowing how remote I was for any
such Intention in their first Compo∣sure,
and how naked they were of
all Ornaments that might render them
meet for publick view, I was unwil∣ling
for a season to comply with their
Desires. Neither was it their Im∣portunity
(which as they did not use,
so I should not in this Case have va∣lued)
but their Reasons that prevail∣ed
with me to consent, that they
might be Published by any that had a
mind thereunto, which is all my Con∣cernment
therein. For they said,
that whereas the Land wherein we
live, is filled with Sin, and various
Indications of God's displeasure there∣on,
yet there is an unexemplified
Neglect in calling the Inhabitants of
it unto Repentance, for the di∣verting

of Impendent Judgments.
The very Heathen, they said, up∣on
less Evidence of the Approaches of
Divine Vengeance, than is now
amongst us, did always solemnly ap∣ply
themselves to their Deities, for
the turning it away. Wherefore this
Neglect amongst us, they supposed
to be of such ill Abode, as that
the weakest and meanest Endeavour
for Releif under it, might be of
some use; and of that nature I can∣not
but esteem this Discourse to be.
They added moreover, That where∣as
on various Accounts, there are
continual Apprehensions of pub∣lick
Calamities, all mens Thoughts
are exercised about the Ways of De∣liverance
from them. But where∣as
they fix themselves on various and

opposite Ways and Means for this
End, the Conflict of their Coun∣sels
and Designs encreaseth our
Danger, and is like to prove our
Ruine. And the great Cause here∣of,
is a general Ignorance and Neg∣lect
of the only true Way and
Means, whereby this Nation may be
delivered from Destruction under
the Displeasure of God. For if
their Thoughts did agree and cen∣te