Proposalls from his Excellency Sir Thomas Fairfax: and the Councell of his Army, by way of addresse to the Parliament, for removing the causes of the cryes and groanes of the people; for pay for the souldiers, relief for Ireland, disbanding the supernumery of forces in England. And removing of the quarters further from London, into severall parts. Also for inabling the kingdome to finde monies, and for making commodities to be cheaper, and more plentifull the High Sheriffes and not committees to execute the power. To prevent the designes of those that study anarchy; to remove distractions, and grindings of the faces of the poore, and the wasting of the counties, and to settle a true peace, and security through the whole kingdome. By the appointment of his Excellency Sir Thomas Fairfax, and the Councell of his Army, subscribed John Rushworth, Secretary. October 17. 1647. ... Imprimatur, G. Mtt.


PROPOSALLS From his Excellency Sir THOMAS FAIRFAX: AND The Councell of his Army, by way of Addresse to the Parliament, for removing the causes of the Cryes and Groanes of the Peo∣ple; For pay for the Souldiers, Relief for Ireland, Disbanding the supernumery of Forces in England. And removing of the Quarters further from London, into severall parts.
Also for inabling the Kingdome to finde Monies, and for making Commodities to be cheaper, and more plentifull The High Sheriffes and not Committees to execute the power.
To prevent the Designes of those that study Anarchy; to remove distractions, and grindings of the faces of the poore, and the wasting of the Counties, And to settle a true peace, and security through the whole KINGDOME.
By the appointment of his Excellency Sir Thomas Fairfax, and the Councell of his Army, Subscribed JOHN BUSHWORTH,Secretary.
October 17. 1647.THese Proposals from his Excellency Sir Thomas Fairfax,and his Councell, are appointed to be Printed, according to the Ordinance of both Houses of Parliament.
Imprimatur,
G. Mtt.Printed at London by Robert Ibbitson, in Smithfield, neer the Queenes-head Tavern, 1647.
PROPOSALS From His Excellency Sir THOMAS FAIRFAX AND The Councell of his Army, by way of Addresse to the Parliament, for removing The Causes of the cryes and groanes of the PEOPLE.Mr. Speaker,THe great sense we have of the cryes and groanes of the people, under Free quar∣ter, and those unutterable calamities, that must inevitably befall this poore King∣dome, presses us sore, And invites us to make this earnest addresse unto you; that you would please to take it into your present con∣sideration to make out a provision for a con∣stant pay of those forces you intend to keepe on foote for the security of this Kingdome,
and the reducement of distressed Ireland.
And because His Excellency and this Ar∣my are oblieged by their ingagement to take care of all those Forces, which have mutual∣ly ingaged with you, in these late services.
We doe offer unto you our opinion; whe∣ther it may not much conduce to your af∣faires, speedily to prepar