A nevv vvonder, a woman never vext A pleasant conceited comedy: sundry times acted: never before printed. Written by VVilliam Rowley, one of his Maiesties servants.




A NEVV WONDER, A WOMAN NEVER VEXT.
A PLEASANT CONCEITED Comedy: sundry times Acted: never before printed.
Written by VVILLIAM ROWLEY, one of his Maiesties Servants.
LONDON, Imprinted by G. P. for Francis Constable, and are to be sold at his shop at the signe of the Crane in Saint Pauls Churchyard. 1632.







A NEVV VVONDER, A VVOMAN NEVER VEXT.
Actus Primus.
Enter Old Foster, Alderman Bruy•e and two Fact••〈◊〉 chard, and 〈◊〉
Old Foster.THis ayre has a sweet a breath Master Bruy•…

Br.Your partner Sir.

O. Fost.〈◊〉, and in good I hope, this hal•…
Playes the lewd wanton with our 〈◊〉 sayles,
And makes 'm big with vaporous envy.

Br.Tis no more yet, but then our fraught is full
When shee returnes laden with merchandize
And safe deliver'd with our customage.

O. Fost.Such a delivery heaven send us,
But time must ripen it? are our accounts made even?

Geor.To the quantity of a penny, if his agree with mines
What's yours Richard?

Ric.Five hundred sixty pounds;

Read the grosse summe of your broade cloathes.

Geor.68. peices at B, ss, and l; 57. at l, ss, and o.

Ric.Iust; leade, xix tunne.

O. Fost.As evenly we will lay our bosomes as our bottome•
With love as merchandise, and may they both increase
•o Infinites.

Br.Especially at home; that golden traffique love
Is scantier far than gold; and one myne of that
More worth than twenty Argoseyes
Of the worlds richest treasure.

O. Fost.Here you shall dig, and finde your lading.

Br.Here•s your exchange; and as in love
So wee'le participate in merchandize.

O. Fost.The merchants casualty:
We alwayes venture on uncertaine ods,
Altho we beare hopes Embleme the anchor with us.
The winde brought it, let the wind blow't away agen;
Should not the Sea sometimes be partner with us
Our wealth would swallow us.

•r.A good resolve: but now I must be bold
To touch you with somewhat that concernes you.

O. Fost.I could prevent you; is't not my unthrifty brother?

〈◊〉.Nay, leave out the adjective (unthrifty,)
〈◊〉 brother Sir, tis he that I would speake of.

〈◊〉.He cannot be nam'd without unthrifty S••,
〈◊〉 his p•oper Epithite, would you conceite
•ut what my love has done for him
〈◊〉, so chargeable, and so expensive,
〈◊〉 would not urge another addition.

〈◊〉.Nay Sir, you must not stay acquantity
〈…〉 the name of brother
Which is inseparable, hee's now in Ludgate Sir,
And part of your treasure lyes buryed with him.

O. ••st.I, by vulgar blemish; but not by any good account;
There let him howle, •s the best stay he hath;
For nothing but a prison can containe him
So boundlesse is his ryot; twice have I raysde

His decayed fortunes to a faire estate
But with as fruitlesse charity, as if I had throwne
My safe landed substance backe into the Sea,
Or dresse in pitty some corrupted Iade,
And he should kick me for my courtesie.
I am sure you cannot but heare, what