Doctor Chamberlain visited with a bunch of his own grapes, gathered out of his own packet of letters: to know whether my answer to his question gave satisfaction, and that by his reply to partake of those rare gifts of the spirit, which he proffered to publish in Black-fryers Church. Also an answer to Dr Chamberlains reply, concerning sprinkling the baptized. / By Thomas Bakewel.


Doctor Chamberlain VISITED WITH A Bunch of his own Grapes, Gathered out of His own Packet of Letters: To know whether my Answer to his Question gave satisfaction, and that by his Reply to partake of those rare Gifts of the Spirit, which he proffered to publish in Black-fryers Church.
Also an Answer to Dr Chamberlains Reply, concerning Sprinkling the Baptized.
By THOMAS BAKEWEL.
DEUT. 32.32.Their vine is of the vine of Sodom: and their grapes are grapes of gall, their clusters are bitter.
London, Printed for John Dallam, and are to be sold at his shop in Black-fryers neer Carter-lane, 1650.
A Visit to Doctor Chamberlain, to make Reply, if he be not satisfied, that the censure of his Dream fall not on himself, to be left hardened in blind∣nesse.SIR,SInce I wrote my Answer to your Question, concerning Sprinkling the Baptized, you have published all your Letters, which you sent to Doctor Gouge about it; and also a scurrilous Libel, full of railing language, you have Printed with them.
This railing Rabshakeh saith, That this reverend Minister of Jesus Christ knows not of what spirit he is, and that he hath not the Spirit of Christ, nor of a private Christian; he is none of Christs Minister, but a Worldling; he is dumb, and dare not speak; he is not fit to have the charge of Souls: he is devil∣ish minded, and ought to be cast out, or healed: Christ will not have such spirits to be Ministers of his Kingdome: He is more for the world, and his own ease, then for Christ, and your good: He chuseth to keep his people in darkness, lest a stronger then he should come in, and dispossesse him, by bringing in the glorious Light of the Gospel. Thus terming our Ministers to evil spirits, and himself and his Faction to Jesus Christ, who on∣ly is able to cast them out, and to take possession of the Soul, be∣ing the Redeemer of it.
But what is the offence given by Doctor Gouge, for this man thus to rail on him?
Answ. Nothing but this, Christ, saith he, answered all question, and so should he. But Sir, why did not you come to him for an Answer? How can you endure to hear this man to rail thus, before you have tryed the Doctors faithfulnesse? when he so lovingly invited you to come unto him, and if you pleased, to bring a Friend with you: But your motion was rather for his Pul∣pit, then for his Answer, more for division then for satisfaction: rather presuming to teach the Doctor, then to be taught by him. Now Christ would not answer those that came to cavil at his Do∣ctrine, Joh. 18.19, 20. nor those that questioned his Authority, Mat. 21.27. nor his accusers before Pilate, Mat. 27, 12, 14. A