His Majesties letter to his Parliament in Scotland, assembled October 19. 1669. Together with the speech of His Grace the Earle of Lauderdale, His Majesties high-commissioner. As also, the answer of the Parliament of Scotland to His Majesties gracious letter.


 [illustration] HONI SOIT QVI MAL Y PENSE [royal blazon or coat of arms] 
 [illustration] •. Johannis VVhitefoordMackenʒie Armiger. [armorial blazon] 
His Majesties LETTER TO His Parliament in Scotland, Assembled October 19. 1669.
Together with THE SPEECH OF His Grace the Earle of Lauderdale, HIS Majesties High-Commissioner.
AS ALSO, The Answer OF THE PARLIAMENT OF SCOTLAND TO His Majesties Gracious LETTER.
Published by His Majesties speciall Command.
In the SAVOY, Printed by Tho: Newcomb: AND Reprinted at Edinburgh, by Andrew Anderson, Anno 1669.
His Majesties LETTER TO His Parliament in SCOTLAND, Assembled October 19. 1669.My Lords and Gentlemen,WE do often reflect, with thankfulnes & joy, upon the good∣nesse of Almighty God, for restoring Ʋs to our King∣doms, and them to their former Li∣berty, and Peace: and we acknow∣ledge it a further instance of Gods goodnesse, that as he hath filled Our beart with kindness towards Our Subjects of that our Ancient Kingdom, and with a Constant Zeal to promote what We judge conducible to their welfare; so He hath blest Ʋs with returns from them of Love, Loyalty and ready Complyance with Our Pleasure on all Oc∣casions, most sutable thereunto: of which our late Parliament hath given signal proofs, as wel as Our other good Subjects. And this gives Ʋs Confidence that the earnest desire We have to render this Island more happie then ever it was in times past, by setling amongst all Our good Subjects within the same, a mutuall affection that may endure to all
Posterity, shall meet with a free Concurrence from you Our Parliment, whom We have called together chiefly for this end.
The bringing of these two Kingdoms of Scot∣land and England, to as close & strict an Ʋnion as is possible, is the means that We propose, for the effectuating thereof: which as it is the highest and noblest design We can have, for witnessing Our Royall Affection to them both, so the accomplish∣ment of it will raise Our satisfaction, almost, as high as Our Wishes. For by the Ʋnion of the hearts & hands of our People, not only our Throne shall be strengthned, and they have Peace and Love setled amongst them for ever, but We shall have the Glory of Accomplishing what our Royall Grandfather King James of ever blessed Memo∣ry, attempted as the greatest thing he could devise, and wherein be, whowas a Competent Judge, pla∣ced the happiness of the Crown and Kingdoms, and wherein He meant to have gloried as the chiefest action of His Life.
We have fully instructed our Commissioner with our intentions as to this Subject, and concerning such other matters as seem to Ʋs to be usefull for the Constant peace and welfare of the Church and State in that our Kingdome. You are to give him full Credit, &