Heaven and earth, spirit and blood, demanding reall commonwealth-justice: or A letter to the Speaker of the present House of Commons. By Captain William Bray; for his captivity in Windsor-Castle.


Heaven and Earth, Spirit and Blood, DEMANDING REALL Commonwealth-Justice: OR A LETTER To the SPEAKER of the present House of Commons.
By Captain William Bray; From his Cap∣tivity in Windsor-Castle.
ROM. 2.2, 6.But we are sure that the judgment of God is according to truth, against them which commit such things; Who will render to every man according to his deeds.
Imprinted at London, 1649.
Mr. Speaker,I Did long since make my APPEAL in Parliament (as the fundamentall, Legal birthright of the People) for righteousness and justice, and might have expected, that after such glo∣rious and unparallel'd Declarations, Covenants, Imprecations, Engage∣ments, and actions; I should have had a Legal, righteous, Christian, Parliamentary, and impartial hearing, between the General and Me, according to the Ancient and just constitution of Authority in its first institution in Scripture, Deut. 1.16, 17. and according to the many obligations that lye upon you from the Commands thereof, Deut. 16.19, 20.
Thou shalt not wrest Judgment; Thou shalt not re∣spect persons: That which is altogether just shalt thou follow, 2 Chron. 19.6•7. The contrary is abhorred, and judg∣ment denounced against it, Esay 1.23, 24 Jerem. 5.28, 29. & 22.16, 17, 18. & Amos 5.12. & 6.12, 14.
Mich. 3.9, 11. Job 20.6, 7, 19. Though his Excel∣lency mount up to the Heavens, and his head reach to the clouds; yet he shall perish for ever like his own dung: they which have seen him shall say, Where is he, because he hath oppressed, Acts 10.34. James 2.9.
You have cut off the late King,
 so arbitrarily and forcibly, violating the Lawes and Liberties of the People, you have solemnly Sworn and Covenanted to sight for, and maintain the Laws and Liberties of the people, and wished the wrath and vengeance of Hea∣ven and Earth to fall upon you if you did not main∣taine the laws and liberties, as I have declared in my third appeale for Common-wealth-Justice, which re∣maines dead in your hands (as I heare) and he that de∣livered it to you (viz. Cornet Cheeseman) was impri∣soned by Lieutenant Generall Cromwel, &c.
By Arbitrarinesse, lawlessenesse, power, force, strength or the sword (for it will amount to no other as to men) the Lord Jesus the precious Sonne of the Most High, and the head of Saints was Crucified, butchered and massacred in his Liberties,
 Freedoms and Rights of his humanity &c. as appeares by the whole Scriptures of his Life, the confessions of his Judge, and his sufferings. God, the People, the Laws and Conscience,
 are to be accounted unto for the losse of the meanest Member, or of any person or persons unjustly destroyed; For the Lord and a just Law, ten∣der innocent Bloud and the Liberties of his People; Christ the glorious Sonne of God perfectly declared the Laws of nature and justice.
You prof