The blessed life and meritorious death of Our Lord & Saviour Jesus Christ, from His conception to His cross, and from His cross to His crown together with the series, and order of His ministery, and miracles, as they are recorded by the four Evangelists, wherein what is wanting in one is supplied out of the other / by Sam. Clarke ...


THE BLESSED LIFE, AND MERITORIOUS DEATH OF OUR LORD & SAVIOUR Jesus Christ; From his CONCEPTION to his CROSS, and from his CROSS to his CROWN.
Together with the Series, and Or∣der of his Ministery, and Miracles, as they are Recorded by the four Evangelists, wherein what is wanting in one is supplied out of the other.
By SAM. CLARKE, sometime Pa∣stor in St Bennet-Fink, London.
In all things it behoved him to be made like unto his Brethren, that he might be a merciful, and faithful high Priest in things pertaining to God, to make reconciliation for the sins of the People.
For in that he himself hath suffered being tempted, he is able to suc∣cour them that are tempted.
Heb. 2. 17, 18.LONDON, Printed for William Miller at the Sign of the Gilded-Acron St Pauls Churchyard near the little North door. 1664.
Imprimatur,
Joh. Hall R. P. D. Episc. Lond. à Sac. Domest.April 13. 1664.THE LIFE & DEATH OF OUR BLESSED LORD & SAVIOUR Jesus Christ.IN the 6th moneth after John, sirnamed the Baptist, was conceived, the Angel Gabriel (who had in time past fore∣told to Daniel, the coming of the Messias, by a definite number of weeks) was sent by God to Naza∣reth in Galilee, to the blessed Virgin Mary, that was betrothed to Joseph, of the same Tribe of Judah with her self, and of the stock of David, who, after salutations, declared unto her that she should bring forth the Son of God, and should call his Name Jesus: and having more fully taught her of the ad∣mirable manner of her conception, to be performed by the power of the holy Ghost overshadowing her, with great Faith she said, Be it to the handmaid of the Lord according to thy word. Luk. 1. 26, 38.
Christ being thus conceived, the Mother of our Lord went into the Hill Countrey, with hast into a city of JIuda (to wit, Hebron, a city of the Priests, situate in the moun∣tains of Judea, Josh. 21. 10, 11.) where, when she entred into the house of Zacharias the Priest, and had saluted her cousin Elizabeth, she, perceiving the child to spring in her womb, was filled with the holy Ghost, and declared that Mary was blessed which believed, and confirmed that those things should be performed that were told her of the Lord:



To whom for an answer the blessed Virgin (imitating that song of Hannah. 1 Sam. 2. 1.) rehearsed that Divine Hymn, My soul doth magnifie the Lord, &c. After which Mary tarried with her about three moneths. Luke. 1. 39, 56.
Mary Not long after, Joseph finding his betrothed wife with child, was willing to put her away privily: but being warned of God in a dream, and informed that she had conceived by the holy Ghost, and should bring forth her Son Jesus, who should save his