The prayse of all women, called Mulieru[m] pean Very fruytfull and delectable vnto all the reders. Loke [et] rede who that can. This boke is prayse to eche woman.


¶The pray¦se of all women / called Mulierū Pean. Uery fruyt∣full and delectable vnto all the reders.
¶ Loke & rede who that call. This boke is prayse to eche woman.

WHat tyme ye crabbe h{is} course had past
And Phebus atteyned the Aquarye
The selfe same time whā it frose fast
Amyddes the moneth of Ianuarye
I in my bedde, and slepe in myne eye
A sodeyne assemble before me dyd appere
And women they semed by abyte and chere.

❧ A wake they sayde, slepe nat so fast
Consyder our grefe, and howe we b• blamed
And all by a boke, that lately is past
Whiche by reporte, by the was fyrst framed
The scole of wom•n, none auctour named
In prynte it is passed, lewdely compyled
All women wherby be sore reuyled.

☞ Consyder therin, thyne owne good name
Consyder also our infamye
Sende forth some other, contrary the same
For thyne and outs, bothe honestye
The Pean thou wrote, and lyeth the bye
Be quycke herein, prolonge nat thus
As thou woldest our sauour, nowe do for vs

¶ Amongest all other, one b•ldely prest
Obey sayd she shalt thou / be thou ned so strong
Her male & he••antell, she threwe on my brest
For I am she sayd she, thou hast do most wronge
A wake a wake, thou slepest ouer longe
Uenus am I cleped, my name shall nat be hyd
Nowe sharpen thy pen, and wryte as a the byd.

❧ Of trueth it is, wryte on quod she
The nature of man inclyneth to synne
Rather than vertue, and reason is why
Eche nature dothe ende, as it dothe begyn
Salte wyl be water, thought none be therin
The tre of the cote, dothe take his verdure
The fruyte whe•by, is knowen swete or soure.

☞ So at ye begynnyng, where man had that vse
Of wyt and reason, to be ruled by
By cause he offended, he made excuse
The faute allegynge, to the femynye
God to haue dysceyued, yf it wolde haue be
And as he tho, to lye begon
So to this daye, he holdeth on.

¶ Of vs pore women customably
Without cause iust, to rayle and iest
No nature naturate, vnder the skye
Fysshe, fowle, worme, ne beest
But with theyr owne kynde, the lyue at rest
Man of all other, of maners so rude
Can nat saye well by his symylytude.

❧ A great abuse, and shamefully holde
Suche frowardnes, in hande to haue
The selfe same thynge, whiche most they shulde
Laude and loue, it to depraue
And that of nede▪ whiche most they craue
So to improper, great foly it is
For in no wyse they may vs longe mys.

Recorde the goodnes, of god almyghty
At the creacyon, whiche he began
Perceyuynge it coulde nat endure a ryght
Without any helpe made to the man
Faciamus (sayde he) and made Eue than
The woman the man, to helpe and assyst
It foloweth therfore, we can nat be myst

¶ Howe be it, ye men fast pore and prye
All that ye may vs women agayne
Nothynge lefte out, ye may come by
Of holy wrytte, nor thot poetes do fayne
All is alledged as thynge certayne
And what that makes nat, for your purpose
Shall