The comicall historie of Alphonsus, King of Aragon As it hath bene sundrie times acted. Made by R.G.


THE COMICALL HISTORIE OF Alphonsus, King of Aragon. As it hath bene sundrie times Acted. Made by R. G.
 [illustration] 
LONDON Brinted by Thomas Creede. 1599.
The Comicall Historie of Alphonsus, King of Arragon.Act. I.After you haue sounded thrise, let Venus be let downe from the top of the Stage, and when she is downe, say.
POets are scarce when Goddesses themselues
Are forst to leaue their high and stately seates
Placed on the top of high Olympus Mount,
To seeke them out, to pen their Champions praise.
The time hath bene when Homers sugred Muse,
Did make each Eccho to repeate his verse,
That euery coward that durst crack a speare,
And Tilt and Turney for his Ladies sake,
Was painted out in colours of such price
As might become the proudest Potentate.
But now a dayes so yrksome Idels slights,
And cursed charmes haue witch'd each students mind,
That death it is to any of them all,
If that their hands to penning you do call:
Oh Virgil, Virgil, wert thou now aliue,
Whose painfull pen in stout Augustus dayes,
Did daigne to let the base and silly flea
To scape away without thy praise of her.
I do not doubt but long or ere this time,
Alphonsus fame vnto the heauen's should clime:
Alphonsus fame that man of Ioue his seed,
Sprung from the loines of the immortall Gods,

Whose sire although he habit on the earth,
May claime a portion in the fierie Pole,
As well as any one what ere he be.
But setting by Alphonsus power diuine,
What man aliue or now amongst the ghoasts
Could counteruaile his courage and his strength?
But thou art dead, yea Virgil thou art gon:
And all his acts drownd in obliuion.
And all his acts drownd in obliuion?
No Venus no, though Poets proue vnkind,
And loth to stand in penning of his deeds,
Yet rather then they shall be cleane forgot,
I which was wont to sollow Cupids games
Will put in vre Mineruaes sacred Art,
And this my hand which vsed for to pen
The praise of loue, and Cupids peerles power,
Will now begin to treat of bloudie Mars,
Of doughtie deeds and valiant victories.
Enter Melpomine, Clio, Errato, with their sisters, playing all vp∣vpon sundrie Instruments, Calliope onely excepted, who com∣ming last, hangeth downe the head, and plaies not of her Instru∣ment.
But see whereas the stately Muses come,
Whose harmony doth very far surpasse
The heauenly musick of Appolloes pipe.
But what meanes this Melpomine her selfe
With all her sisters sound their Instruments,
Onely excepted faire Calliope?
Who comming last & hanging downe her head,
Doth plainly shewe by outward actions
What secret sorrow doth torment her heart.
Stands a side.Mel.Calliope thou which so oft didst crake,
How that such clients clustred to thy Court
By thick and threefold, as not any any one
Of all thy sisters might compare with thee:
Where be thy schollers now become I troe?
Where are they vanisht in such suddain sort,
That while as we do play vpon our strings,
Yo