The late commotion of certaine papists in Herefordshire Occasioned by the death of one Alice Wellington, a recusant, who was buried after the popish maner, in the towne of Allens-Moore, neere Hereford, vpon Tuesday in Whitsun weeke last past. 1605. With other excellent matter thereby occasioned. Truely set forth.


THE Late Commotion of certaine Papists in Herefordshire.
Occasioned by the death of one Alice Wellington, a Recusant, who was buried after the Popish maner, in the Towne of Allens-Moore, neere He∣reford, vpon Tuesday in Whitsun weeke last past.
1605.
With other excellent matter thereby occasioned.
Truely set forth.
 [illustration] AVT NVNC AVT NVNQVAM [printer's or publisher's device] 
Imprinted at London by S. S. for I. Chorlton, and F. Burton.
1605.
To the Reader.GEntle Reader, to satisfie thy minde, and to stop the mouths of the multi∣tude, who liste∣ning after eue∣ry idle report, are easily in∣duced to beleeue, whatsoeuer bee by vncer∣tayne fame bruted abroad, I haue caused these seuerall Letters, with a true discourse therein contayned, of the beginning and proceedings in these late Popish actions, to be diuulged: and I haue the rather bene thereunto induced, because I know certayn∣ly, that not a few, for their better satisfacti∣on, are very desirous to vnderstand the truth thereof.

Furthermore, in perusall hereof, the vul∣gar people, & such as are wauering in Re∣ligion, by reading his Maiesties protesta∣tion, for the mayntenance of Religion, herein contayned, and publikely vttered in the Starre-chamber, by the mouth of the L. Chauncellor of England, vpon Thurs∣day the xx. of Iune last past, shall hereby bee incouraged to go on in the Christian profession of the Gospel, so long time by Gods mercies, and the constancy of religi∣ous Princes mayntayned amongst vs, and not bee discouraged by any idle perswasi∣ons, which seditious and trecherous Pa∣pists, who haue vowed themselues vnto the seruice of the Pope, shall closely and vnder∣myningly (thereby seeking to alienate the hearts of his faythfull subiects, from their dutifull allegeance)▪ buzze into their eares. So that if any Papist hereafter should seeke to perswade any of his Maiesties subiects, that the tymes are like to alter, and that a Toleration should bee graun∣ted, (thereby wronging his Maiesty ex∣ceedingly, who is so fully settled in the

Trueth) they may answere them, Auoyd, false and lying Varlets, your words are vayne, and your hopes are more vayne; see here his Maiesties protestation to the contrary.
Neither can I here omit to giue notice vn∣to the world, of that excellēt speach, which mine owne eares heard vttered vpon Mun∣day the fifth of August last past, at Paules Crosse, by the right Reuerend Father in God, the Lord Bishop of London, in his Sermon there; because it serueth for a strengthening and confirmation of that, which in the ensuing Letter you shall read. His words tended briefly to this effect:
That his Maiesty had made a protesta∣tion before God and his