A sermon preached before the Incorporated Society for the Propagation of the Gospel in Foreign Parts; at their anniversary meeting in the parish church of St. Mary-le-Bow, on Friday February 19, 1773. / By the Right Reverend Jonathan Lord Bishop of St. Asaph.


A SERMON Preached before the Incorporated SOCIETY FOR THE Propagation of the Gospel in Foreign Parts; AT THEIR ANNIVERSARY MEETING IN THE Parish Church of ST. MARY-LE-BOW, On FRIDAY February 19, 1773.
By the Right Reverend JONATHAN Lord Bishop of ST. ASAPH.
LONDON Printed: BOSTON, NEW-ENGLAND, Re-Printed: And to be Sold by THOMAS and JOHN FLEET, at the Heart and Crown in Cornhill, 1773.
Advertisement.THE following SERMON, printed in London, and re-printed in Boston, is admirably well adapted to lead those, who may think proper to read it, into just Sentiments of the im|policy of the British Ministry in their conduct towards the Colonies, and of the only effectual method they can take to promote that love, harmony, peace, and mutual confidence, without which neither England, nor America, can be truly happy. It has been highly spoken of, by the best writers on the side of Liberty, in the public Papers at home, and recom|mended to the perusal of all, who have at heart the real wel|fare of the whole British Empire, and not a detached part of it only. As it was preached by a Lord Bishop, and before so great and respectable a Body as the honorable Society for pro|pagating the Gospel, it will, doubtless, be thought eminently worthy of the attention of Episcopalians in this part of the world; especially, as it may reasonably be supposed to con|tain the real sentiments of that Society, who have give their thanks to the preacher of this Sermon, and desired its publi|cation for the common good. Some parts of this Sermon re|late peculiarly to the affairs of the Society before whom it was preached; for which reason, those parts of the Sermon might have been omitted: but it was judged expedient to re|print the whole, lest it should be said, detached passages only were selected, and others suppressed, with a view to serve a turn.
The EDITOR.A SERMON Before the Society for the Propagation of the Gospel.LUKE CHAP. ii. VER. 14.Glory be to God in the highest, and on Earth Peace, good will towards Men.I KNOW no passage in the holy scriptures, that may be adapted with more propriety to our present meeting, than this declaration from the angel of the gracious purposes of Heaven in publishing the Gospel. That which was the design of the gospel itself must ne|cessarily be the chief object of a Society instituted to propagate it. The generous office, we have undertaken, is by instructing distant countries in religious truths to promote the peace and happiness of mankind. It is by such actions that the holy scriptures allow the sons of men to consider themselves as glorifying God; and such, we are assured, are the most likely to obtain his favour and good will to men. Without entering into a farther explication of