Elijah's mantle. A sermon preached at the funeral of that aged and faithful servant of God, the Reverend Mr. Samuel Cheever, Pastor of a church of Christ in Marblehead; who deceased, May 29, 1724. aetatis suae, 85. / By John Barnard, A.M. his colleague Pastor. ; [Two lines from Psalms]


Mr. Iohn Barnard's SERMON On II Kings II.14.
Elijah's Mantle.
A SERMON Preached at the FUNERAL OF That aged and faithful Servant of GOD, The REVEREND Mr. Samuel Cheever, Pastor of a Church of Christ in Marblehead; Who deceased, May 29, 1724. AEtatis Suae, 85.
By Iohn Barnard, A. M. His Colleague Pastor.
With long Life will I satisfy him, and shew him my Salva|tion
Ps. XCI.16.BOSTON Printed: Sold by S. Gerrish, near the Brick Meeting-House, in Cornhill 1724.
A Funeral Sermon Upon the Reverend Mr. Samuel Cheever.II. King. II.14.And he took the Mantle of Elijah, that fell from him, and smote the Waters, and said, Where is the Lord God of Elijah?
FAMOUS is the History of Elijah, the renowned Prophet of the God of Israel; his Zeal for the Lord of Host, his Fidelity and Courage in his Ma|sters Service, the Miracles which he wrought, and his triumphant Ascention into Heaven, in a Chariot of Fire, make a considerable Figure in the sacred Story. Nor less illustrious is Eli|sha, whom God had ordered Elijah to anoint his Successor, to be a Prophet of the Lord in his room▪ Tho' Elijah is jealous of the Name 〈◊〉
Honour of the God of Israel, yet is he not jea|lous of his own Name and Honour; but, while he is yet alive, takes his Successor under his Patronage, does what he can to furnish him for his Work, to raise him in the Esteem and Affections of the People, and rejoices that he is like to leave the work of the Lord in such able Hands, ready to sing his nunc dimitti•, now Lord lettest thou thy Servant depart in Peace.
THIS Chapter where my Text is, contains the History of Elijah's Translation; (for God honoured him at his Death, that he went an unusual road to Glory) and Elisha's entring up|on the prophetick Function. Elisha was appri|sed of the glorious Exit his Master was about to make, and resolves to keep close to him, that he might loose none of the advantages of his Instruction and Converse, and that he might have his own Faith in the invisible World strengthned by the opening of such a bright Scene of Glory.
ELIIAH having made his last visit to the several Colleges of the Prophets, and taken his leave of them, now bids Elisha ask what he shall do for him, e're he departs from him.
GREAT the Request which Elisha makes; which shewed his Mind intensly fixed upon his Work, and that he desired nothing more than to be thorowly furnished for it. Let (says he) a double Portion of thy Spirit be upon me; double to the rest of the Sons of the Prophets, that he might be acknowledged his Successor, and wor|thy the Dignity.
ELIIAH grants his Request, upon Con|dition of his seeing him when he ascended, if he continue faithful to him to the last. And God said Amen •o it.
ANON the ill