Two new playes ... written by Tho. Middleton, Gent.


 [illustration] Vera Effigies Tho: Midletoni Gent.
TWO NEW PLAYES.
VIZ. More DISSEMBLERS besides WOMEN.
VIZ. WOMEN beware WOMEN.
WRITTEN By Tho. Middleton, Gent.
 [illustration] 
London, Printed for Humphrey Moseley and are to be sold at his Shop at the Prince's Arms in St. Pauls Churchyard. 1657.
MORE DISSEMBLERS BESIDES WOMEN.
A COMEDY, BY Tho. Middleton, Gent.
 [illustration] 
LONDON: Printed for Humphrey Moseley, 1657:
TO THE READER.WHen these amongst o∣thers of Mr. Thomas Middleton's Excellent Poems, came to my hands, I was not a lit∣tle confident but that his name would prove as great an In∣ducement for thee to Read, as me to Print them: Since those Issues of his Brain that have already seen the Sun, have by their worth gained themselves a free entertainment a∣mongst all that are ingenious: And I am most certain, that these will no way lessen his Reputation, nor hin∣der his Admission to any Noble and Recreative Spirits. All that I require

at thy hands, is to continue the Au∣thor in his deserved Esteem, and to accept of my Endeavors which have ever been to please thee.
Farewel.UPON The Tragedy of My Familiar Acquaintance, THO. MIDDLETON.
WOmen beware Women; 'tis a true Text
Never to be forgot: Drabs of State vext,
Have Plots, Poysons, Mischeifs that seldom miss,
To murther Vertue with a venom kiss.
Witness this worthy Tragedy, exprest
By him that well deserv'd among the best
Of Poets in his time: He knew the rage,
Madness of Women crost; and for the Stage
Fitted their humors, Hell-bred Malice, Strife
Acted in State, presented to the life.
I that have seen't, can say, having just cause,
Never came Tragedy off with more applause.
Nath. Richards.The Actors Names.LOrd Cardinal of Milan.Lactantio, his Nephew.Andrugio, General of Milan.Father to Aurelia.Lords of Milan.Governor of the Fort, Servant to Aurelia.Crotchet, a Singing Master.Sinquapace, a Dancing Master.Usher to Sinquapace.Dondolo, Servant to Lactantio.Dutchess of Milan.Celia, her Waiting-Gentlewoman.Aurelia, Mistress to Andrugio and Lactantio.Page, Lactantio's old Sweet-heart disguised.Servants.Scaen Milan.
MORE DISSEMBLERS BESIDES WOMEN.The First Part.Act. 1.Scaen. 1.Enter Lactantio, and Aurelia, and Servant.Musick.SONG.TO be chaste, is Womans glory,
'Tis her fame and honors story.
Here sits she in Funeral weeds▪
Onely bright in vertuous deeds.
Come and read her life and praise,
That singing weeps, and sighing plays.
Lact.
WElcome Souls Musick: I have
been listening here
To melancholly strains from
the Dutchess lodgings.
That strange great Widow,
that has vow'd so stifly
Never to know loves heat in a second Husband:
And she has kept the Fort most valiantly
(To th' wonder of her Sex) this seven years day;
And that's no sorry tryal. A moneths constancy
Is held a vertue in a City-widow,
And are they excel'd by so much more i'ch' Court?
'My faith a rare example for our Wives.
Heavens blessing of her heart for't poor Soul,
Sh'ad need ha