The speech of William Earl of Crawford presented to the Parliament of Scotland. 1690.


An Account of the late Great and Famous Victory Obtained over Two Thousand High-Land Rebels, In the North of Scotland, by His Majesty's Forces, Commanded by Sir Tho. Levistone, WITH A particular Relation of the Killing Five Hundred of the Enemy, and the Taking of One Huodred Prisoners; of which Number, were several Officers of Note.Licensed, and Entered according to Order.
JUst now the Council received the following Account, by an Express from Sir Thomas Levistone (who Commands a part of our Forces in the North) that he having intercepted some Letters which discovered some In∣triegues of the Rebels, and the measures they designed to take; he immediately assembled his Forces, which consisted of Eleven Hundred Men, and marched all Night after the Enemy, who were to the Number of Two Thousand: And, in their March, were forced to Ford a River up to their Arm-pits; Colonel Levistone, and other Officers, (to encourage the Soldiers) went in first: Our Men came up to the Enemy before day, and Attaqued them in their Camp; which was so great a sur∣prise to them, that they immediately fled; and, in pursuit, there were Killed about Five Hundred of the Rebels, and One Hundred taken Prisoners, (among which were many considerable Officers of Note) with little loss on our side. The Prisoners gave Sir Thomas an account, That they expected daily to be joyned by a great many more; of whom the Colonel de∣signs to go in pursuit of; and doubts not, but in a very little time, to be able to give a very good account of them.
On Saturday advice was brought to Edenbrough, from the West, giving an ac∣count, That a Ship Landed in Gallaway, near the Mouth of the Water of Oar, sent from the late King James, from the Bay of Dublin, with Men, Arms, and Am∣munition, &c. they Landed some Men in the Night, undiscovered, who have gone through the Country with several Letters from the late King James. The Country People in that Place being in a posture of Defence, the next day seized the Vessel in the River, with the Arms and Ammuniti∣on, &c. and Sixteen Officers, who are sent for by the Council. This Ship car∣ried but Four pieces of Cannon.
As the happy News, which almost daily arrives from Ireland, of the good Success His Majesties Forces meets with there, both by Sea and Land, is sufficient to en∣courage the hopes all good Protestants, and Well-wishers to the Interest of great Brittain have, of a speedy and intire Re∣duction of that Kingdom, to the subjection of the Crown of England; So the no less happy Accounts we have received of His Majesty's Affairs in the Kingdom of Scot∣land confirms all good Men in their Belief of the speedy and intire Settlement of that Kingdom, in the true Foundations of Peace and Unity; notwithstanding the Roman Catholicks and other Jacobites, Enemies to the Interests of their Majesties, and these Kingdoms, by their no less Impudent than false and scandalous Reports,