A journal of what passed in the expedition of His Excellency Col. Benjamin Fletcher, captain general and governour in chief of the province of New-York, &c. to Albany, to renew the covenant chain with the five canton nations of Indians, the Mohaques, Oneydes, Onondages, C[...]es and Sinnekes.


A JOURNAL Of what Passed in the Expedition of His Excellency Coll. Benjamin Fletcher, Captain General and Governour in Chief of the Province of New-York, &c. To 〈◊〉ANY, to Renew the •ovenant Chain with the five 〈◊〉•ations of Indians, the Mohaques, Oneydes, Onondages, 〈◊〉 and Sinnekes.〈◊〉 17. ON Thursday after Sun set his Excellency im|barqued at Gre••••ch. On Tuesday mor•|ing arrived at Albany.
This day his Excellency viewed the Fortifications of the City, and 〈…〉 to the Mayor & Aldermen for such Reparations 〈…〉 needful in the Block-houses, Platforms and 〈…〉.
The 27th. Sunday afternoon, The Sachims of One•d and 〈…〉 at Albany, in the Evening they supped with his E•••llency giving great expressions of the Joy and Satis|facti•••〈◊〉 had in meeting his Excellency.
〈…〉 his Excellency sent Capt. James Wee••s to view 〈…〉Sche•ectady, and bring report to his Excellency 〈…〉 Repairs are wanting. Which was 〈◊〉.
This day the Sachims of the other three Nations arrived, an• desired time to rest themselves till to morrow.
The 29th, His Excellency called the Sachims together, an• spake.
At a Meeting of the Sachims of the five Nations at Albany, the 29th of Sept. 1696.Present, His Excellency Coll. Benjamin Fletcher, &c.Coll Nicholas Bayard, of the Council.William Pinhorn, Esq of the Council.Major Peter Schuyler, of the Council.Matthew Clarkson, Esq Secretary.The Major, Recorder & Aldermen of Albany, &c.His Excellency said, Brethren, It is an unexpressible Satis•faction to me that I see you here. I do heartily Condole▪ the loss our Brethren of the Onondages and Oneydes have sustained by the late Eruption of the French Army from Canada.
Upon the first certain Intelligence I had 〈…〉 in 〈◊〉 with what Force I could hastily gather for your assistance.
And I am now here, and present you the Onondages an•Oneydes these two Belts of Wampum, as a Confirmation of m• Sincerity, and these Kettles to repair your loss in that kind.
Brethren, Two Moneths ago I received at New-York the fir•• Intelligence that the French had made an Insult upon you• Country, I forth-with came up, as I said before, to your R••lief and Assistance. I had an account, before I did reach Alban• from some of your People, That the French Army were r••treated, and marched back towards Canada; I then sent E••presses desiring you all to meet me at this place. Some tim• after I received your Answer, That you would meet me a 〈◊〉 this time in Albany. And I am now come up a second Time 〈◊〉 Summer, in order to renew the Covenant Chain, and to co••sult

with the Brethren what is most proper, and may be most conducing to the common good & safety of the whole House.
Brethren, I do acquaint you from my most Illustrous Master the