Foure learned and godly treatises viz. The carnall hypocrite. The churches deliverances. The deceitfulnesse of sinne. The benefit of afflictions. By T.H.


FOVRE LEARNED AND GODLY TREATISES; VIZ.
The Carnall Hypocrite.The Churches Deliverances.The Deceitfulnesse of Sinne.The Benefit of Afflictions.
By T. H.
Printed at London by Tho. Cotes, for Andrew Crooke, and are to be sold at the signe of the Beare in Pauls Churchyard, 1638.
Imprimatur,
Tho. Wykes.1638.Severall Treatises of this Authour.1. THE Carnall Hypo∣crite, on 2 Tim. 3.5.The Churches Deliverances, on Iudges 10.13.The Deceitfulnesse of sinne, on Psalme 119.29.The Benefit of Prayer, on Prover. 1.28, 29.2 The Vnbeleevers preparing for Christ, out of,
Revelations 22.17.1 Corinth. 2.14.Ezekiel 11.19.Luke 19.42.Matthew 20.3, 4, 5, 6.Iohn 6.44.3. The soules Preparing for Christ, or a Treatise of Con∣trition, on Acts 2.37.4 The soules Humiliation, on Luke 15 Verses 15, 16, 17, 18.5. The soules Vocation, or Effectuall Calling to Christ, on Iohn 6.45.6. The Soules Vnion with Christ, 1 Cor 6.17.7. The Soules benefit from union with Christ, on 1 Cor. 1 30.8. The Soules Iustification, eleven Sermons on 2 Corinth. 5.21.THE CARNALL HYPOCRITE.2 TIM. 3.5.Having a forme of godlinesse but denying the power thereof, from such turne away.
IF you cast your eies into the first Words of the Chapter, in the first verse, you shall find the ho∣ly Apostle writing to Timothy his Sonne and Scholler, doth by way of Prophecy, and directi∣on from God, discover the ma∣nifold dangers that would come to passe in the last dayes, and also annexeth the great danger in the 3, 4, 5. verses, he makes up as it were a Cata¦logue of those corruptions, that should harbour in their hearts, and discover themselves in the lives of wicked men, in the last age of the world, which is the age wherein we now live. In the 1. v. perilous dayes shall come, the reason of the trouble, and the ground of the misery, that the Spirit hath foretold, shall befall and be brought upon the world, it shall not be in regard of the punishment inflicted, but in regard of the sinne com∣mitted.
Among which sinnes, he rec∣kons up the cursed dissimulati∣on, that men should carry a faire shew outwardly, when they
 had a great deale of wretched∣nes and vilenesse in their hearts inwardly, that is one of the last, though not one of the least sins here reckoned up, thus farre the Apostle doth exhort Timothy to turne away from them.
Before we come to particu∣lars,  [Doct. 1]  take up the point in gene∣rall from these words as they stand in reference to the for∣mer.
The multitude of sins bring the dangerest times. When there are the greatest abomina∣tions committed, there is the greatest danger to be expected. For the danger of times lyeth not in regard of outward trou∣bles but in regard of the mani∣fold corruptions that are in us, and the many evils committed by us, when men are most wick∣ed, then the time is most dan∣gerous, for it is not the power of Satan, nor his