A declaration of the proceedings of the honourable committee of the House of Commons, at Merchant-Taylors Hall for raising the people of the land as one man. Vnder the command of Sir William Waller. August 3. 1643. Ordered by the committee to be printed.


A DECLARATION OF THE PROCEEDINGS OF THE HONOƲRABLE COMMITTEE Of the House of COMMONS, AT Merchant-Taylors Hall, For Raising the People of the Land as one MAN.
Vnder the command of Sir William Waller. August 3. 1643.
Ordered by the Committee to be printed.
LONDON, Printed by T. Pain and M. Simons. 1643.
A DECLARATION OF the Honorable Committee of the House of COMMONS at Merchant-Taylors Hall, August 3d. 1643.THousands of judicious well minded men being throughly sensible of the miserable condition of the Common-wealth, see∣ing their most faithfull Friends Com∣manders, and Souldiers destroyed in small parties against strong and treache∣rous Enemies; and finding by long and sad experience, that all endeavours of Parliament whe∣ther by gentle or forcible meanes, availed not to prevent or subdue their implacable malice, but as they increased in numbers, so they continued to spoile and murther ho∣nest religious people in all places where they came. And being throughly sensible of the distressed estate of our bre∣thren in Ireland, and the wants and necessities of the poore through decay of Trade, and want of Fuel, and foreseeing that famine and destruction, were even seizing upon the
whole Nation, if not speedily, and by extraordinarie meanes prevented, did propose unto themselves the gene∣rall raising of the whole people (as one Man) as the onely meanes to give a speedie end to this destructive warre. To effect which, they presented a Petition to the Com∣mons of ENGLAND in Parliament assembled the 20th. day of Iuly •643. wherein they manifested, that they rightly understood the condition of their Enemies, and were no whit blinded by their delusions: and in most ear∣nest, and humble manner desired, that that Honorable House would be pleased to appoint a Committee to ma∣nage that great affaire of Raising the whole people. The Petition was received with great expressions of affection; and a Committee of worthie Members of the House ap∣pointed for advance of that Service.
This Honorable Committee with great resolution and confidence undertooke this burthensome and great em∣ployment, as conceiving the same to be the last refuge of the people: in pursuance whereof they proceeded with great caution, to lay a sound Foundation and good me∣thod: which being agreed upon both for the City of London, and all other Counties; they then su•moned all sorts of well-affected persons of London, Westminster, Southwark, and parts adjacent, to appeare at Marchant-Taylers Hall on Thursday the 27th of Iuly, there to sub∣scribe for Moneys, Ammunition, Armes, Horse, &c. and to list their persons.
The people appeared in great numbers, the Right Ho∣norable the Lord Major, and many worthie Aldermen and Gentlemen were there to cou