The description and vse of the sphaere· Deuided into three principall parts. Whereof the first intreateth especially of the circles of the vppermost moueable sphære, and of the manifold vses of euery one of them seuerally. The second sheweth the plentifull vse of the vppermost sphære, and of the circles thereof joyntly. The third contayneth the description of the orbes whereof the sphæres of the sunne and moone haue been supposed to bee made, with their motions and vses. By Edvvard Wright. The contents of each part are more particularly set downe in the table.


THE
DESCRIPTION
AND VSE OF THE
SPHAERE.
Deuided into three principall Parts. WHEREOF
The first intreateth especially of the Cir∣cles
of the vppermost moueable SPHAERE,
and of the manifold vses of euery one
of them seuerally. The second sheweth the plentifull vse of the
vppermost Sphaere, and of the Circles
thereof joyntly. The third contayneth the Description of the
Orbes whereof the Sphaeres of the Sunne and
Moone haue beene supposed to bee
made, with their Motions
and Vses.
By EDVVARD WRIGHT.
The Contents of each Part are more particularly set
downe in the Table.
LONDON,
Printed by B. A. and T. Fawcet, for Iohn Tap, and are to bee
sold at his Shop at S. Magnus corner.
1627.
A TABLE OF THE
CONTENTS OF
this Booke.The first Part. Of the Circles of the vppermost SPHAERE,
and their seuerall vses.THe Definition and deuision of this Sphaere,
Chap. 1.The description of the Horizon, Chap. 2.The vses of the Horizon, Chap. 3.The description of the Meridian, Chap. 4.The vses of the Meridian, Chap. 5.The description of the Houre-circle, and Poles of this
Sphaere, Chap. 6.Of the Equinoctiall circle, and why it is so called and how di∣uided,
together with his manifold vses, Chap. 7.The description of the Zodiacke of this Sphaere, Chap. 8.The vses of the Zodiacke, Chap. 9.The description of the two Colures, together with the vses
common to them both, Chap. 10.The vses of the Equinoctiall colure, Chap. 11.The vses of the Solstitiall colure, Chap. 12.The description of the two Tropickes, Chap. 13.The vses of the Tropickes, Chap. 14.The Polar circles, Chap. 15.Vses of the Polar circles, Chap. 16.Of the Zones, Chap. 17.The difference of shadowes that the Sunne maketh in these
Zones, Chap. 18.The second Part. Of the vses of the vppermost Sphaere, and
of the Circles thereof joyntly.TO rectifie the Sphaere, that is to sett the Sphaere
to the Latitude of that place for which you
would vse it, Prop. 1.To know▪ the place of the Sunne by this Sphaere,
Prop. 2.To know the declination of the Sunne, or of any point of the
Ecliptick, Prop. 3.To know the right Ascention of the Sunne, or any point of
the Zodiack, Prop. 4.To know the oblique ascension of the Sunne, or of any Starre or
point in the Zodiack, Prop. 5.To finde the difference of Ascension, Prop. 6.To finde at what time the Sunne riseth or setteth, Prop. 7.To finde the length of the Artificiall Day or Night,
Prop. 8.To know the time of the Sunne rising, or Su