A speech made to his excellency the Lord General Monck and the council of state, at Fishmongers-Hall in London. The thirteenth of April, 1660. At which time they were entertained by that honorable company. / Written by Tho. Jordan. After a song of difference betwixt the lawyer, the soldier, the citizen and the countrey-man. The chorus being ended. Enter the ghost of Massianello fisher-man of Naples.


A SPEECH Made to His EXCELLENCY The Lord General MONCK And the COUNCIL of STATE, At Fishmongers-Hall in LONDON.The Thirteeth of April, 1660. At which time they were. Entertained by that Honorable COMPANY.Written by Tho. Jordan.After a SONG of difference betwixt the Lawyer, the Soldier, the Citizen and the Countrey-man.
The CHORUS being ended. Enter the Ghost of MASSIANELLO Fisher-man of NAPLES.
IS your Peace just? What rock stands it upon?
Conscience and Law make the best Ʋnion.
If you gain Birthrights here by Bloud and Slaughter,
Though you sing now, you'l howle for ever after:
Trust my Experience, one that can unfold
The strangest truest Tale er'e was told,
In my degree, few men shall overtake me,
I was as great as Wickedness could make me;
This heart, this habit, and this tongue to boot
Commanded Forty thousand Horse and Foot,
In three weeks time, My fortune grew so high
I could have match'd my Fishers Family
With the best Bloud in Naples: Right and Wrong,
And Life and Doath attended on my Tongue,
Till (by a quick verticitie of Fate)
I find too son what I repent too late;
And, though a Rebell in a righteous clothing,
My glow-worm glories glimmer'd into nothing.

Thus fell that Fisher-man that had no fellow,
I am the Wandring Shade of Massianello;
Who, since I was into Perdition hurl'd,
Am come to preach this Doctrine to the world.

Rebels though backs with Power, and seeming Reason,
Time and Success, shall fell the fate of Treason.

But stay!  what Picture's this hangs in my sight?
'Tis valiant Walworth, the King-saving Knight:
That stab'd Jack Straw: Had Walowrth liv'd within
These four Months, where had Jack the Cobler been?
It was a bold brave deed, and act in Season,
Whilest he was on the Top-branch of his Treason.

But from that Shaddow, dropping down My eye,
I see a Substance of like Loyalty.

IF long renowned Walworth had the fate
To save a King, You have to save a State;
And, who knows what by Consequence? The Knight
By that brave Deed, gain'd every man his Right:
And you, by this, may gain each Man his due,
Not onely Trusty Hearts, but Traitors too:
He drew bloud, you did not; 'tis all one sense,
There's but a Straws breadth in the difference:
He sav'd the Town from being burnt, and You
Have rescued it from Fire and Plunder too:
He was this Companies good Benefactor,
And You have been their Liberties Protector;
For which, I heard them say, they would engage
Their States, and Blouds, and Lives against all rage
That shall oppose Your just Designes: And that
You are the welcomst Guest, ever came at
This Table; they say, All they can exhibit