An humble enquiry into the nature of the dependency of the American colonies upon the Parliament of Great-Britain, and the right of Parliament to lay taxes on the said colonies. By a freeholder of South-Carolina. ; [Twenty lines of quotations]


AN HUMBLE ENQUIRY INTO The NATURE of the DEPENDENCY of the AMERICAN COLONIES upon the PAR|LIAMENT of GREAT-BRITAIN, AND The RIGHT of PARLIAMENT to lay TAXES on the said COLONIES.
By a FREEHOLDER of SOUTH-CAROLINA.
A House divided against itself cannot stand.
When people heard ship money demanded as a right, and found it by sworn judges of the law adjudged so, upon such grounds and reasons as every stander|by was able to swear was not law, and so had lost the pleasure and delight of be|ing kind and dutiful to the King, and, instead of GIVING, were required to PAY, and by a logick that left no man any thing that he might call his own, they no more looked upon it as the case of one man, but the case of the kingdom, nor as an imposition laid upon them by the King, but by the judges, which they thought themselves bound in publick justice not to submit to. It was an obser|vation long ago of Thucydides,
That men are much more passionate for injustice than for violence, because (saith he) the one proceeding as from an equal seems rapine, when the other proceeding from a stranger is but the effect of necessity.
—When they saw reason of state urged as elements of law, judges as sharp-sighted as secretaries of state, judgment of law grounded upon matter of fact of which there was neither enquiry nor proof, and no reason given for the payment but what included all the estates of the standers by, they had no reason to hope that doctrine, or the promoters of it, would be contained within any bounds; and it is no wonder that they who had so little reason to be pleased with their own con|dition were no less solicitous for, or apprehensive of the inconveniences that might attend any alteration. —History of the long Rebellion, vol. 1. p. 70, 71.PRINTED in the YEAR M,DCC,LXIX.
[Price Twelve Shillings and Sixpence.]
AN HUMBLE ENQUIRY, &c._THOUGH few or none claim infallibility in express terms, yet it is very difficult ever to persuade some men they are mistaken. We generally have so good an opinion of our own understanding, that insensibly we take it for granted those that do not think as we do must needs be in the wrong. When disputes are once heightened by personal prejudice, or the bitterness of party, it becomes so much the more difficult to the disputants themselves to see their mistakes, and e|ven to bystanders the truth appears wrapped up in a cloud, and through the fog and dust of argument becomes almost impercep|tible.
These remarks I believe will particularly hold good in the sub|ject now in agitation between Great-Britain and her colonies, a sub|ject however of too serious a nature to be given up to prejudice, or to be decided by the rage of party. Every argument pro or con deserves to be most carefully weighed,