An additional appendix to the book entituled Rusticus ad academicos, or, The country correcting the clergy ... by S. Fisher.


AN ADDITIONALL APPENDIX To the Book Entituled Rusticus ad Academicos; OR, The Country correcting the Clergy.
WHEREIN In somewhat a smaller Compasse, and closer Circumference then that of the Volume it alludes to, some few of those Rabbinical Rid∣dles, which yet are obvious enough in the other, to any observant Reader, are rendred more conspicuous to the observation of all; To the end that all that have Eyes may see, and a Heart may understand, How the Scribes and School-men are unskild in the Scriptures, How the Sun is set upon the Seers, How it's night to the Diviners that they cannot divine; How the Vision of all is become unto them as a Book sealed; How blindnesse has befallen the Babel-Builders; How the Race of the (once Reverenced and Renowned) Rabbies is wrap't up in Rounds, in their (so much respected) writings against the Light; How the Doctors are doting on a Divinity of their own; The Tea∣chers and Text men tangled in their own talkings about their Text, and the Priests pull'd down by themselves in their own Prate pretensively for i. e. Pro Scripturis but in very deed against both the very Text, and the very Truth it talks on; How among the Gameliels in general, but more particu∣larly among those four choice ones T. Danson, J. Owen, R. Baxter, J. Tombs, (who, as Representatives of the rest, whose sense they speak, and in whose behalfe they reason, are reckoned with in the bigger Book abovesaid) (Ishma∣el-like Every mans hand is against every man, and each mans hand against himselfe, R. B. I. T. sometimes confuting I. O and T. D. and these foure sometimes confounding and contradicting each man himself; and in a word dancing the Rounds together in the dark, tracing too and fro, crossing and cape∣ring up & down, in & out, and sometimes round about, in the Wood of their own wonted wisdom, in the clouds of their self-created confusion about sundry Do∣ctrines, they concurre in together (by the ears) against the Quakers.
Contradictionibus scatet Spiritus Enthusiasticus;
Ʋnusquis{que} afflatum habet, ita foedè et apertè inter se a spiritu immundo commit∣tuntur ut vix duo eorum in eadem doctrinâ conveniant; sed mirè digladiantes adver∣sas et contrarias sententias quotidie venditant, etiam in Nomine Dei se aliquotiès mutuò devovent et execrantur, Ita{que} Nihil Certi ab i• expectare licet.
The Enthusiastical spirit flows with Contradictions;
So fowlly & apparently are they whifled by the evil spirit among themselves, that scarce two of them can agree in one Doctrine, but clashing wonderfully, they daily vent opposite and contrary opinions, & often they even curse one another in the name of God, therefore there's nothing certain to be expected from them;
Quoth John Owen, Exer: 3. Sect: 34.Quid rides (O sacerdos? de te fabula narratur.
In Homine Domini, ac in Nomine Domini (saith the Proverb) Incipit Omne malum.
By S. Fishe