A defence of the New-England charters. By Jer. Dummer. ; [Two lines in Latin from Sallust.]


A DEFENCE OF THE NEW-ENGLAND CHARTERS.
By JER DUMMER.
Pulchrum est Patriae benefacere, etiam benedicere haud absurdum est.
SALLUST.LONDON: Printed by W. WILKINS, Reprinted at BOSTON: in N. E. by S. KNEELAND, for S. GERRISH and D. HENCHMAN, and Sold at their Shops. MDCCXXI.
To the Right Honourable the Lord CARTERET, One of His MAJESTY's Principal Secretaries of State.MY LORD,_HAving lately had the Honour of presenting the Humble Address of the Province of the Massachusets Bay to His Majesty for the Continu|ance of their Charter Privileges, which they apprehend in some Danger; It seem'd agreeable at the same Time, to explain the Right which the Charter Governments have to those Privileges. Nor could an Argument of this Nature be so properly address'd to any other Person as Your Lordship who, in Your high Station, have all His Majesty's Colo|nies and Plantations within Your Province, and under Your immediate Care.
MY LORD, the Colonies I plead for, ask only Justice; yet if their Circumstances should require the Royal Grace, they humbly hope they have some Claim to it from their firm and exemplary Loyalty. For it may be said to their Honour, that it is not known there is a single Person in all the Charter Governments, whatever there may be in the rest, who is not zealously devoted to His present Majesty, and to the Succession in His Illustrious Family.
IT would be, my LORD, a rash and ill-judg'd Attempt in me, to enter here into Your Lordship's Character, as the manner of Dedicators is; I shall not therefore presume to mention those great Abilities which have distinguish'd Your Lordship in foreign Courts as well as our own; but only beg leave to express my Thanks for that amiable Goodness, so conspicuous in Your Lordship, which softens the Brow of the Minister, and makes our Access easy, when publick Business calls us to attend Your Lordship.
MAY You long continue an Ornament and Support to His Majesty's Councils.
I am, With profound Esteem and Respect, MY LORD,
Your LORDSHIP's most Obedient and Devoted Servant, Jer. Dummer.A DEFENCE OF THE New-England CHARTERS._THE general Name of New-England, includes in its common Acceptation the Province of the Massachusets-Bay, the Colony of Connecticut, the Government of Rhode-Island, with Providence Plantations, and the Province of New-Hampshire. The Three former are Charter Govern|ments: The last, viz. New-Hampshire, never had any peculiar Privileges, but is under the immediate and absolute Direction of the Crown. The Massachusets, as it is the first of all the Colonies in Extent of Terri|tory and Number of Inhabitants, was the first incorpo|rated, having obtain'd their Charter from King Charles the First, in the Fourth Year of his Reign. The Colo|ny of Connecticut receiv'd theirs from King Charles the

Second in 1662, and the Fourteenth Year of his Reign. The Government of Rhode-Island had theirs in the Year followi