A serious search into Jeremy Ives's questions to the Quakers who are herein cleared from his scornful abuses : and Jer. Ives himself manifest to be no Christian from his own observations, reviling, ostentation, &c. / by a witness for Christianity in faith and life, George Whitehead.


A Serious SEARCH INTO Jeremy Ives's Questions TO THE QUAKERS: Who are herein cleared from his Scornful Abuses, And Jer. Ives himself manifest to be NO CHRISTIAN from his own Observations, Reviling, Ostenta∣tion, &c.
By a Witness for Christianity in Faith and Life, George Whitehead.
His Mischief shall return upon his own Head,
Psal. 7. 16.Printed in the Year 1674.
A Serious Search INTO Jeremy Ives's Questions to the Quakers.SInce Jeremy Ives his late Daring Chal∣lenge under Pretext of a Sober Re∣quest, and his attempting to prove the Quakers no Christians, is now changed into Questions for the Quakers, which he saith, are grounded upon some Observations made upon the Papers lately published by Thomas Rudyard and one W. P. which are pretended Replies to Jeremy Ives his sober Request to the Quakers, but will appear by the Light of the ensuing Observations (he sayes) to be but Idle Shifts and Evasions.
Seeing he begins at this contemning Rate against us, and vilifying and slighting our Friends Answers, and pretends such Light in his own Observations; it is needful they

should be inspected and seriously examined, however he reckon his Questions and Obser∣servations so very clear and lightsom Proofs against us, I will assure him, we find no such Validity in them to u•c•ristian us.
I observe two general Accusations on which his Matter much depends to render the Quakers no Christians.
First, Condemning that in others, which they allow in themselves.
Secondly, Disdaining, Huffing, Slan∣dering and Reviling.
Both which I grant with him, are so far from being either Characters of a Chr•stian, or Infallible Marks of a Disciple of Christ, that they are wholy inconsistent with Christianity.
The first Position is thus to be considered.
For Men to condemn that in others which they allow in them elves, is an Inconsistency and a self Condemnation, where the Matter is the same in every Respect, both as to the Nature and Circumstance; though that which is an Evil in it self is condemnable, and not to be allowed either in one's self or in another; much more is his Condemnation aggravated, who allows that Evil in himself which he condemns in others: Other things that are Lawful in themselves become

accidentally Evil, through the Abuse or Evil-Mind that brings them forth.
But to the second Position; it's granted, that Disdaining, Huffing, Slandering and Reviling are evil in themselves, if by Huffing he means a fierce Despising & scornful Slight∣ing those that are good, or that deserve it not; and by Reviling, a making a worthy Man base, or calling a Man all to naught: The Truth of it is, Jeremy, thou wouldst appear in these Matters a very grave, sober Christian, and a Man only for solid