A sermon preach'd before His Majesty at White-Hall, May 29th, 1668 by D.H. Killigrew ...


 [illustration] Augustissimi CAROLI Secundi Dei Gratia ANGLIAE SCOTIAE FRANCIAE ET HIBERNIAE REGIS Effigies [portrait] A: Hertsens Fecit. [illustration] HONY SOIT QVI MAL Y PENSE. [royal blazon or coat of arms] 
A SERMON Preach'd before His MAJESTY AT VVhite-Hall. May 29th. 1668.
BY D. H. KILLIGREW Master of the SAVOY, and Almoner to his Royal Highness the Duke of YORKE.
Published by his Majesties Special Command.
LONDON. Printed by T. R. for R. Royston, Book-seller to his most Sacred Majesty. 1668.
A SERMON Preach'd before His MAJESTY. May 29th. 1668.WISDOME does not only do her works well, but perceives that shee does so, delights in their Beauty, exults in re∣membrance of the ma∣ster'd difficulty, and triumphs ore the con∣quer'd Opposition: Thus God stood-off, as

'twere, from his great worke of the Creation when he had finish'd it applauded, and bles'd it; prided himself, as I may say, in his noble performance; in that he had brought light out of darkness, Order out of Chaos, a World out of nothing. In the like manner, when he had here compos'd the Distractions and Confusions both in the Church and State of Israel, by establishing David literally, and Christ mystically, on the Throne of the Kingdome, he glorys in having brought a∣bout his great Designe; laughs at the fruit∣less Opposition of his Adversarys at home and abroad, of the Philistins, the Moabites, the Ammonites, the Damascens, the Amalekites, of the King of Zoba, and of all the turbulent and ambitious spirits of the house of Saul: delights to recount their Might, and their Machinations, the more to signalize their Overthrow, and to make his Victory illu∣strious. For after all their rage, their ma∣lice, their Councells, their combinations, their seeming successes against him, the Issue was this. Yet have I set my King upon my holy hill of Sion.
We may observe in the words these three things.
1. The Person establisht, My King, (i.e.) David literally so called, and Christ Mystically.2. His Establishment, I have set my King upon my holy hill of Sion.3. Gods Glorying in the fact, that he had done it with such a Non obstante, notwithstanding such Opposition and Contradiction. Yet have I set my King—1. The Person establisht, My King, Gods King. Not only holy Scripture, but the writings of Heathens declare Kings to be sa∣cred persons, descended more immediately from the Gods, and more particularly de∣pending on them. Kings are from Iupiter, says Callimachus, and nothing ever descend∣ed more sacred from him. And Theocri∣tus, Kings are the special Care of the Gods. And this Epithete's affected by Homer,〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉 God-lov'd Kings. Indeed all Kings in general are Gods, derive their Authority from him, governe by his Per∣mission and Providence, as himselfe testi∣fies, By me Kings Reign. But then he delights in a more especiall manner to stile Good Kings, his; to app