The doctrine of our martyres remembred, concerning the Supper of the Lord: as it hath been partly published, in the opening and application of Luk. 22.19,20. Most humbly presented to the serious and seasonable considerations of the most orthodox and sincere Christians that mourn for, or that are stirred up, or called to be repairers of the breaches. In which, 1. A just, plain, and free way to the Lord's table, is so discovered, that all saints with the weakest of believers; notwithstanding any pretended distinguishing opinion, ought unitedly to communicate: proved by several reasons. 2. The profession in which all that communicate ought to acknowledge and therein to be united. 3. The greatness of the duty, and goodness of God, in ordaining and commanding of it. And how all Christian magistrates, ministers, and people, have zealously promoted the same, with some particular hymnes sung by Christians after they received. 4. A declaration, setting forth the evils, and judgements of God, in the undue observation, causeless separation and contempt thereof, and of the necessity of church-government, as a blessed means to remedy, &c. is also added for further information. / By VV. Kaye Minister of the G. at S. ...


A DECLARATION Concerning the great and growing evils, which from the undue admission, contempt of, with the total neglect, and causless separation from the LORD's TABLE.
ALSO, The Divine Right OF The Supream Magistrate Is vindicated, & that all private Oversights or parti∣cular Churches, are to be judged by the general over∣sight or Church-Government; and that the Magistrate may make Ordinances to command all to yeild them creature-like obedience in hearing, and as new creatures to sub∣mit as they are called to the said Ordinance.
Written by William Kaye Minister of the Gospel at S. with Christians ap∣probation upon desire to satisfie such as deny to communicate with their Brethren in respect of circumstantial differences concerning Baptism.
But let a man examine himself, and so let him eae of that bread and drink of that cup,
1 Cor. 11.28.So they established a decree, that they should come to keep the Passeover of the Lord.—Also in Judah the hand of God was to give them one heart to do the command of the King and of the Princes by the word of the Lord,
2 Chron. 30.5, 12.Put them in minde to be subject to Principalities, to obey Magistrates,
Tit. 3.1.Thou leadest thy people like a flock by the hand of Moses and Aaron,
Ps. 77.26.Christ yesterday, to day, and the same for ever,
Heb. 13.8.London, Printed for Martha Harrison, at the Lambe in Pauls Church yard, 1655.
The DECLARATION Concerning the Supper of the Lord.THere is none to be found such a stranger in Israel to what Opinion soever he pretendeth, which did never cast his eye, nor doth not contend for admission to the said Ordinance; in which way, as we shall be found faithful, or disobedient, the blessing, or judg∣ment of God is to be expected or feared.
Therefore seeing we desire as much