The Dutch lover a comedy acted at the Dvkes theatre / written by Mrs. A. Bhen [sic]


THE
Dutch Lover:
A
COMEDY,
ACTED
AT THE
DVKES THEATRE.
Written by Mrs. A. Bhen.
LONDON:
Printed for Thomas Dring, at the Sign of the
Harrow at Chancery-lane end, over a∣gainst
the Inner Temple Gate in
Fleet-street. 1673.
Good, Sweet, Honey, Sugar-candied
READER.WHich I think is more than any one has
call'd you yet.) I must have a word
or two with you before you do advance
into the Treatis•; but 'tis not to beg
your pardon for diverting you from your affairs, by
such an idle Pamphlet as this is, for I presume you
have not much to do, and therefore are to be obliged
to me for keeping you from worse imployment, and if
you have a better, you may get you gone about your
business: but if you will mispend your time, pray
lay the fault upon your self; for I have dealt pretty
fairly in the matter, and told you in the Title •age
what you are to expect within. Indeed, had I hung
out a sign of the Immortality of the Soul, of the Mystery
of Godliness, or of Ecclesiastical Policie, and then had
treated you with Indiscerpibility, and Essential Spissi∣tude
(words, which though • am no competent Iudge of,
for want of Languages, yet I fancy strongly ought to mean
just nothing) with a company of Apocryphal midnight
tales cull'd out of the choicest insignificant Authors; If
I had only prov'd in Folio that Apollonius was a
naughty Knave, or had presented you with two or
three of the worst principles transcrib'd out of the pe∣remptory
and ill natur'd, (though prettily ingenious)



Doctor of Mal•sbury undigest•d, and ill manag'd by a
silly, saucy, ignorant, imp•rtinent, ill educated Chaplain,
I were then indeed sufficiently in fault; but having in∣scrib'd
Comedy on the beginning of my Book, you may
guess pretty near what peny-worths you are like to
have, and ware your money a•d your time accordingly.
I would not yet be understood to lessen the dignity of
Playes, for surely they deserve a place among the mid∣dle,
if not the better sort of Books; for I have heard that
most of that which bears the name of Learning, and
which has abus'd such quantities of Ink and Paper, and
continually imploys so many ignorant, unhappy souls for
ten, twelve, twenty years in the Vniversity (who yet
poor wretches think they are doing something all the
while) as Logick, &c. and several other things
(that shall be nameless, lest I should mispel them)
are much more absolutely nothing than the errantest
Play that e're was writ. Take notice, Reader, I do not
assert this purely upon my own knowledge; but I
think I have known it very fully prov'd, both sides
being fairly heard, and seen some ingenious opposers of
it most abominably baff•ed in the Argument: Some of
which I have got so perfectly by rote, that if this were
a proper place for it, I am apt to think my self could al∣most
make it clear; and as I would not undervalue
Poetry, so neither am I altogether of their judgement,
who believe no wisdom in the worl