At the court at Whitehall, March 6, 1664.:  Present, the King's Most Excellent Majesty ... / It was ordered by His Majesty in Council, that an order this day read and approved at the board, for the dispensing for some time with certain clauses of several acts concerning trade, shipping and navigation, be forthwith printed and published. John Nicholas.


 [illustration] C RDIEV ET MON DROITHONI SOIT QVI MAL Y PENSE [royal blazon or coat of arms] At the Court at WHITEHALL, March 6. 1664.Present,
The Kings most Excellent Majesty.His Royal Highness the Duke of York.Lord Archbishop of Canter∣bury.Duke of Buckingham.Duke of Albemarle.Duke of Ormond.Lord Great Chamberlain.Lord Chamberlain.Earl of St. Alban.Earl of Sandwich.Earl of Anglesey.Earl of Bathe.Earl of Carlisle.Earl of Lauderdail.Earl of Middleton.Earl of Carbery.Lord Bishop of London.Lord Berkley.Lord Ashley.Mr. Vice-Chamberlain.Mr. Secretary Morice.Mr. Secretary Bennet.
IT was Ordered by His Majesty in Council, That an Order this day read and approved at the Board, for Dispensing for some time with certain Clauses of several Acts concerning Trade, Shipping and Navigation, be forth∣with Printed and Published.
John Nicholas.
HIs Majesty, by and with the Advice of His Privy Council, is pleased to Declare and Order, That an Act of Parliament made in the Parliament begun at Westminster the Five and twentieth day of April in the Twelfth year of
His Majesties Reign, and confirmed by the Parliament begun at Westminster the eighth day of May, in the Thirteenth year of His Majesties Reign, intituled, [An Act for encou∣raging and encreasing of Shipping and Navigation] and all the proceedings therein or thereby di∣rected, Be totally suspended in all the matters and things therein contained, concerning, or relating to any Ships or Vessels, their Ma∣sters or Mariners, their Guns, Furniture, Tackle, Ammunition and Apparel, or to any Goods or Commodities imported, or exported to, or from Norway, or the Baltique Sea.
And His Majesty doth further Order, That the said Act, and all the proceedings therein, or thereby directed, be totally suspended in all the matters and things therein contained, con∣cerning or relating to any Ships, or Vessels, their Masters or Mariners, their Guns, Fur∣niture, Tackle, Ammunition and Apparel, or to any Goods or Commodities imported or ex∣ported to, or from any parts of Germany, Flan∣ders or France, whereof the Merchants and Owners shall be His Majesties natural born Subjects.
And His Majesty is graciously pleased to declare and grant, That not only His Ma∣jesties natural born Subjects, but all Mer∣chants of any Nation in Amity with His Ma∣jesty, may import from any parts whatsoever, Hemp, Pitch, Tar, Masts, Saltpeter, and Copper; and upon importation thereof shall be liable to pay only such Duties, as by the Act of Ton∣nage and Poundage are imposed upon His Majesties natural born Subjects, and no o∣ther; Any thing in the said Act to the con∣trary notwithstanding.

And His Majest