Hymnes, or Sacred songs wherein the right vse of poësie may be espied. Be Alexander Hume. Whereunto are added, the experience of the authors youth, and certaine precepts seruing to the practise of sanctification. The table followes in the next page.


HYMNES, OR SACRED SONGS, wherein the right vse of Poësie may be espied.
Be Alexander Hume.
WHEREVNTO ARE ADDED, the experience of the Authors youth, and certaine precepts seruing to the practise of Sanctification.
The table followes in the next page.
Ephes. 5. 18.But be ful filled with the Spirit speaking vnto your selues in Psalmes, and Hymnes, and spirituall songs singing and making melodie to the Lord in your hearts.EDINBVRGH,
Printed by Robert Walde-graue, Printer to the Kings Majestie. 1599. Cum privilegio regio.
The contents of this booke.1 The Authors Recantation.2 Of Gods benefits bestowed vpon man.3 A description of the day Estiuall.4 Consolation to his sorrowfull soule.5 Praise for deliuerie of the sick.6 Of gods omnipotencie.7 The triumph of the Lord after the maner of men, alluding to the defait of the Spanish Nauie, in the yeare 1588.8 The humiliation of a sinner.9 An Epistle to master GILBERT MONCREI•… Mediciner to his Majestie, containing the experi∣ence of the Authors youth.10 Christian precepts seruing to the practise of Sanctification.TO THE FAITH∣FVLL AND VERTVOVS Ladie, Elizabeth Mal-vill, Ladie Cum∣rie, grace, mercie, and peace, from God the father, and from our Lord Iesus Christ.WHEN I read that Epistle written by the Apostle Ioh•…, vnto an elect Lady (beloued in the Lord Iesus) I cal to mind the Godly & elect Ladies in this our age, which with∣in this country ar•… knowne vnto mee. Of the which number I count you to be one, euen a Ladie chosen of God to bee one of his saincts, and the Godlie daughter of a faithfull father: forthe children of God have their owne marks. Therefore when I first perceaued the spiritual conference, the graue behauiour, the feruent zeàle, and the great sense of naturall corruption, with the strang resistance of the same that was in you: I thinke them as infallible signes of Sanctification: Let no man suspect me of flatterie, for I speake not after the flesh. N•…∣ther feare I (Sister) that this my commendation puff you vp: for where the spirit of Iesus dwelles, there is humility: But rather that thereby ye shal be stirred vp & incou•…ag∣ed to perseuere, and grow in Godlines. It is a rare thing

to see a Ladie, a tender youth, sad, solitare, and sanctified, oft sighing & weeping through the conscience of sinne. Would to God that all the Ladies of this Land, especial∣ly they of the greatest ranke, were of the like modest and godlie disposition: for the most part of them we see, to delite mair in couetousnes & in oppressiō of the puire for the intertainement of their pride, or else to spend their dayes in chambering, wantōnes, decking of their bodies in delicat feeding, and in satisfying their lustes, nor to haue ane incorrupt and holie hart, with a me