The renevving of certaine orders deuised by the speciall commandement of the Queenes Maiestie, for the reliefe and stay of the present dearth of graine within the realme in the yeere of our Lord 1586. Nowe to bee againe executed this present yere 1594. vpon like occasions as were seene the former yere. With an addition of some other particular orders for reformation of the great abuses in ale-houses and such like.


❧ The renewing of certaine Orders deuised by the spe∣ciall commandement of the Queenes Maiestie, for the reliefe and stay of the present dearth of Graine within the Realme: in the yeere of our Lord 1586.
Nowe to bee againe executed this present yere 1594. vpon like occa∣sions as were seene the former yere. With an addition of some other particular orders for Reformation of the great abuses in Ale-houses and such like.
Jmprinted at London by the Deputies of Christopher Barker, Printer to the Queenes most excellent Maiestie. 1594.
 [illustration] HONI SOIT QVI MAL Y PENSEDIEV ET MON DROIT
The renewing of certaine Orders deuised by the speciall commande∣ment of the Queenes Maiestie, for the reliefe and stay of the present dearth of Graine within the Realme.THat the Shiriffe and Iusti∣ces of the Peace shal imme∣diately vpon the receipt of these orders, assemble them selues together wt as much speede as they possible may: And hauing conferred a∣mōgst themselues vpon the contents hereof, shall first for the better execu∣tion of the same, diuide themselues into sundry companies, and take amongest them into their charge by seuerall diuisions all the Hundreds, Rapes, or Wapentakes of the said Countie.
Item, euery companie so allotted out, shall forthwith direct their Precepts vnto the Shi∣riffe to warne the high Constables, vnder Con∣stables, and other the most honest and substan∣tiall inhabitantes within the same Hundred, Rape, or Wapentake, to the number of xxxvi. persons, moe or fewer, as the quantitie of the
 Hundred, Rape, or Wapentake shal require, to appeare before them at a certaine place, and within as short time after the receipt hereof as they conueniently may, & vpon the apparance of the sayde persons, they shall diuide them into so many Iuries, as they shall thinke meete, gi∣uing instruction to the said Shiriffe to returne as fewe of such as be knowen great Farmours for Corne, or that haue store of graine to sell, as he can. And such of the persons so warned as shall not appeare, but make default being som∣moned, and not hauing any iust or reasonable excuse alowable by the Iustices, to be punished therefore at the good discretions of the Iusti∣ces, both by Imprisonment and Fine, before whom they are to appeare.
Item, they shall first declare to the parties appearing, the cause why they are sent for, and therewith earnestly charge them in the feare of God, to apply themselues to the seruice where∣unto they shall be now called, with al duetiful∣nesse and diligence, and without any partiali∣tie to any person, and then they shall giu