The papist represented, and not misrepresented being in answer to the second sheet of the second part of the Papist misrepresented and represented : and for a further vindication of the catechism truly representing the doctrines and practices of the Church of Rome, in the point of their praying to the cross.


THE
Papist Represented,
AND NOT
MISREPRESENTED;
BEING
In ANSWER to the SECOND SHEET
of the Second Part of the
PAPIST Misrepresented and Represented. And for a further VINDICATION of the
CATECHISM truly Representing the Doctrines
and Practices of the Church of Rome, In the Point of their Praying to the CROSS.
LICENSED, December 24. 1686.
LONDON:
Printed for Ric. Chiswell, at the Rose and Crown
in St. Paul's Church-yard, MDCLXXXVII.
THE
PAPIST REPRESENTED,
And not
Misrepresented, &c.WHEN I observe the late Proceedings
of some of the Controvertists in the
Church of Rome, and the design
they have in hand of setting forth
their Doctrines and Practices in a
way less offensive to others, and
more defensible to themselves, than
in former Ages; I cannot better
resemble it, than to a Carver, that being employed to
form an Image of the Virgin Mary or other Saint,
concerns not himself to make it like to the Person
thereby to be represented, but so as shall best serve to
allure and excite the people to a devout Adoration of
it. If the Image was strictly to be examined, and we
had an Original to compare it with, it's likely there
might not be one true Line in the whole Composure,
and that it might as well suit any other Person in the
World, as him or her whom it pretends to resemble.
And thus it will fare in many points now introduced
upon the Stage by Veron and the Bishop of Meaux
abroad, and a late flourishing Pen and others amongst
us, which carry in them so little Conformity to the
Ancient Doctrine and Practice of the Church of Rome,
that Face can hardly be more unlike to Face, than one

would be unlike to the other, if impartially compared;
and which, if in another Age they had appeared as they
do in this, would have been suspected of Heresy, if not
condemned for it. For did they in former times Formally
pray to the Saints, and frequently beg those things of
them, which are only in the power of God to grant? The
Papist after the new Mode of Representation, is said to
believe all good, whether Spiritual or Temporal, comes im∣mediately
from God through the Merits of Christ; and that
they no otherwise desire the Just in Heaven to pray for
them, than they do the Just on Earth, to be Joint-Petitio∣ners
with themselves to the Seat of the Divine Majesty.
Did they heretofore use, without Scruple, to Worship
and to pray to Images, as if the persons thereby repre∣sented
were before them? We are now told, they give
no other Respect, Honour and Veneration to them, than
we do to the Bible; and that they can as well pray to the
Monument, &c. as to the Image of the greatest Saint in
Heaven. Did they formerly adore the Cross, and direct
their Prayers to it in the s