The cure of misprision or Selected notes, upon sundry questions in controversie (of main concernment) between the word, and the world. Tending to reconcile mens judgements, and unite their affections. Composed and published for the common good : as being a probable means to cure prejudice, and misprision in such as are not past cure. / by R. Junius.


The Cure of MISPRISION: Or Selected Notes, upon sundry questions in con∣troversie (of main concern∣ment)▪
Betwen The Word, and The World.
Tending to Reconcile mens judgements, and Unite their affections.
Composed and Published for the common good: as being A probable means to Cure Prejudice, and Misprision: in such as are not past Cure.
by R. Junius.
Woe unto you when all men shall speak well of you for so did their Fathers of the false Prophets.
Luke 6. 26.LONDON.
Printed, by Tho. Paine, for Benjamin Allen, and are to bee sold at his shop in Popes-Head Alley, 1646.
To the Reader.COurteous Reader,The disease to which this Cure is applyed, is epidemicall. The hearts of men beeing anatomi∣zed, it will bee found, that the grand cause of their alienation from, and op∣position unto the waies of God: is a se∣cret obstruction, arising from that which as the seed of it, the Author calls Misprision. This Book de∣scribes the disease very lively, in the

Symptomes of it, and prescribes the Cure in a very artificiall method; laid downe in great variety of matter, and elegancy of conveyance. The receipt is made up of well chosen ingredients: strong, and therefore likely to be opera∣tive; sweet, & thereby inviting the pa∣tient to take it. If the Jaundies be re∣moved out of thy eye wherby the things of God have been represented to thee in a false colour: Let the chief Physiti∣an have all the glory of thy recovery, which is all the reward the confectioner expects for his paines.
THO: GOODVVIN.JO. ARROVVSMITH.RICHARD VINES.To all such, as speake evil of the Way of Truth, and of the things, which they understand not. 2. Pet. 2. 12. by way of Preparative.WEc desire to heare of thee, what thou thinkest; for as concerning this Sect; wee know that every where it is spoken against, Acts 28. 22.
They cal evil good, and good evil; put darknes for light, & light for darknes; bitter for sweet, and sweet for bitter; They iustifie the wicked, and take a∣way the righteousnes of the righteous from him. Isay 5. 20. 23.
By honour and dishonour, by evil report and good report, as deceivers and yet true, 2 Cor. 6. 8.

They think it strange that ye runne not with them: unto the same excesse of ryot; therefore speake they evil of you. 1 Pet. 4. 4.
These things will they do unto you for my names sake: because they have not known the Father, nor me. Job. 15. 21. and 16. 3.
We speake the wisdom of God in a mystery; even the hidden wisdome which God ordain'd before the world, unto our glory; wch none of the Prin∣ces of this world knew, for had they known it, they would not have cruci∣fied the Lord of glory, 1 Cor. 2. 7. 8.
Because they rec