Miscellaneous letters and essays on several subjects philosophical, moral, historical, critical, amorous, &c., in prose and verse : directed to John Dryden, Esq., the Honourable Geo. Granvill, Esq., Walter Moile, Esq., Mr. Dennis, Mr. Congreve, and other eminent men of th' age / by several gentlemen and ladies.


Miscellaneous LETTERS AND ESSAYS, On several SUBJECTS.
Philosophical, Moral, Historical, Critical, Amorous, &c. in Prose and Verse.
DIRECTED TO John Dryden, Esq The Honourable Geo. Granvill, EsqWalter Moile, EsqMr. Dennis,Mr. Congreve, And other Eminent Men of th' Age.
By several Gentlemen and Ladies.
LONDON: Printed for Benjamin Bragg, at the White-Hart, over against Water-Lane in Fleetstreet, 1694.
TO THE HONOURABLE Sir JOHN TRENCHARD, Their Majesties Principal Se∣cretary of State. And one of the Lords of their Maje∣sties most Honourable Privy Council.Honour'd Sir,I am so far from being Apprehen∣sive of the Censure of any think∣ing Man, for Dedicating a Book of this Nature to a Man of your Stati∣on, that I'm satisfyed I shou'd have in∣jur'd your Merit in choosing any o∣ther

Patron for That, in which the Glo∣ry of the ENGLISH NATION is in some Degree defended: for tho' I confess the States Man (according to our Modern Notion) has little to do with the ensuing Discourses; yet I'm very sure the TRUE ENGLISH MAN (a Name I know you far more value) must extreamly interest you in them; for the Patriots Zeal ought to ex∣tend to the Glory, as well as Happy∣ness of his Country: so that you must be pleas'd to shelter with your Pro∣tection, a Piece that aims at a Vindi∣cation of our known RIGHT and HONOUR, which are impiously in∣vaded, and as weakly, as ignobly be∣tray'd to a Foreign People, by a big∣gotted Veneration for a former Age. But Poetry, Sir, will appear from the following Essays, to be a Prize we ought no more to surrender to Foreign
Nations than our Courage or Liberty. For Greece and Rome, who have gi∣ven us the noblest Examples of the Latter, have been the most famous for the Former. And as we are not inferior to either of those Common-Wealths, in the Honor of Arms, or the Wisdom of our Laws, so I can never yield them the precedence in Poetry.
Nor is this Glory I plead for, a meer Noitionary Fantout, which affords no Benefit to the Public, as is evident from its very Nature and Design, as well as the Authority of the Wisest Nations, who have Esteem'd POETS very necessary, as well as very Hon∣ourable Members of the Common-Wealth. This Athens thought, when on the loss of Eupolis in a Sea Fight, she decreed that no Poet shou'd for the future, ever venture himself in the

War, least by one Fatal Blow, a Treasure should be lost, an Age cou'd not repair, for POETS were not born ev'ry Day.
But this Veneration which Greece paid the Poets, is built on the innate Excellence of their Art. Pleasure is the Sovereign Aim of all Men, 'tis that which the Soul naturally and justly desires, and for which 'tis made, and what the greatest Stoic persues;