The immortality of mans soule, proved both by scripture and reason contrary to the fancie of R.O. in his book intituled Mans mortality ...



THE IMMORTALITY OF Mans Soule, PROVED BOTH BY SCRIPTVRE and REASON.
Contrary to the Fancie of R. O. In his Book Intituled Mans Mortality; wherein hee (vainely) affirmeth hee hath proved Theologically, and Philosophically, that whole man is a compound wholy mortall, and that the present going of the soule into Heaven or Hell is a meer fiction, and that at the Resurrection is the beginning of our Immortality, and then actuall Damnation or Salvation, and not before.
LONDON, Printed by Peter Cole at the signe of the Printing-presse in Cornehill, neer the Royall-Exchange. 1645.







THE IMMORTALITY OF MANS SOVLE. Proved both by Scripture and Reason.
CHAP. 1. That Man consisteth of two parts, Soule and Body.COncerning GOD, we are ac∣knowledge him to be a Spirit, as touching the world, we are to conceive of it as a body, in man we have an abridgment of both, of God in respect of the Soule, of the world in compo∣sition of the Body, as though the Creator on purpose to set forth a mirror of all his workes, intended to bring into one little compasse, both the infinitnesse of his owne nature; and also the hugenesse of the whole world together, after his own Image in respect of his soule, after his other creatures in respect of life, sence and moving, mortall so farre as he holdeth forth the Image of the creature, immor∣tall so farre as hee holdeth forth the Image of GOD his Creator.
This  [Arg. 1]  may be proved by pregnant arguments.
1 No creature can worke out of his owne proper spheare, how can man if totally mortal conceive of immortality, can mortality comprehend immortality? as probably as a man may throw a stone and knock downe the sunne which is farre above his spheare. The beasts mind altogether the earth they eate when they are hungry drinke when they are dry and go when they are beaten and regard their Creator no more then they doe the clock when it strikes. The fish live in the water as the beasts upon the earth because they are aqueall the other terrene, nei∣ther rationall and therefore cannot worke above their sphear, but man conceives not only the things of this world, but also of a better, immortality, glory eternity, therfore must needs have something in him that is immortal. Who is hee that desireth not to be immortal? how can he desire it unlesse he know what it is? how can he know what it is unlesse he have somthing in him immortal? none of us covereth to be beginninglesse, bcause none of us are so, neither can be so and because we are not so, we can not com∣prehend what it is, for who can conceive of eternity without beginning, but he will end his Wits before his desires? but on the contrary there is not so base a mind upon earth which coveteth not to live for ever, in so much that whereas we looke not for it by natur we seeke to obtayne it by skill and pollicy, some by bookes, some by images, an