Christ the Sts advantage both in life and death. A sermon preached at the funerall of Ms Elisabeth Coke, wife to Colonell Tho. Coke of Pebmersh, Esquire. By Thomas Burrough, preacher of the Gospel at Pebmersh in Essex.


CHRIST THE Sts ADVANTAGE both IN LIFE AND DEATH.
A SERMON Preached at the Funerall of Ms ELISABETH COKE, Wife to Colonell THO. COKE of Pebmersh, Esquire.
By Thomas Burrough, Preacher of the Gospel at Pebmersh in Essex.
PHILIP. 3.7.But what things were gain to me, these I accounted losse for Christ.
LONDON, Printed by T. R. and E. M. for John Bellamy at the 3. golden Lions in Cornhill, 1646.
MAY 2. 1646.Imprimatur.
JOSEPH CARYL.〈1 page duplicate〉To the Worshipfull, my truely Honoured good friend, Colonell Thomas Coke Esquire, one of his Majesties Justices of Peace and Quorum for the County of Essex.Sir,HOw justly I shall incur the censure of indiscretion in giving consent to have these raw and indigested Meditations (espe∣cially in these knowing times) to passe the Presse, I cannot but easily conjecture. This by way
 of excuse I can truely say, my conscience bearing mee witnesse, I intended nothing lesse; neither desired any thing more, then that they might have been so bu∣ried in the hearts of the Con∣gregation to whom they were preached, that the sound of them might never have been farther heard. But importunity of friends for the printing of this poor, plaine, unworthy Sermon hath not onely besieged mee, but also gained so farre upon mee, that I can keep possession of it no longer: And being enforced to yeeld it up, I knew not into whose hands to resigne it rather then into yours, of whose favou∣rable acceptance of my poore, weak labours in the Ministery I
 have had so much experience. Your clemency hath embolden∣ed me not onely to present it to you, but also to send it abroad in that plain posture and homely Dresse wherein it was delivered, without alteration or addition. Sufficient to procure from you for it the best welcome, and most cordiall entertainment that can be desired, is the very mentioning of the occasion, and sending it with this bare Inscription, A Sermon preached at the Funerall of your Dear, Loving, and Welbelo∣ved Wife. I have read a Spanish Proverb, He that wipeth the childs nose kisseth the mothers cheeke: Sure I am, he that doth but men∣tion the name of your dear Wife, though hee renew your griefe,
 yet in your apprehension hee re∣viveth your heart. For upon my knowledge, you account your tears shed for her sweet refresh∣ment; and those solitary places and times seem to you most de∣lightsome, where and when, be∣ing alone, you may (as David once at Ziklag) weep till you can weep no more, 1 Sam. 30.4. I desire that you may imitate Da∣vid also in the ensuing clause: But David encouraged himself in the Lord his God, ver. 6.
Sir, You know right well, that whatever comforts wee lose in the creature, they are eminently and transcendently to be found in the blessed Creatour: But the difficultie is in applying these