A proclamation made by the high and mighty Fredericke by the grace of God King of Bohemia, &c. Commanding all those his subiects which are now in the seruice of his majesties enemies, to repaire home within the space of 14. dayes, vpon paine of his highnes displeasure, and confiscation of goods and lands. Translated out of the Dutch coppie.


❧ A Proclamation made by the High and Mighty FREDERICKE by the Grace of God King of BOHEMIA, &c.
Commanding all those his Subjects which are now in the Seruice of his Majesties Enemies, to repaire Home with in the space of 14. dayes, vpon paine of his Highnes displeasure, and Confiscation of Goods and Lands.
Translated out of the Dutch Coppie.
Printed at Prague, 1620.
WEE FREDERICKE, By the Grace of GOD King of BOHEMIA, Count Palatine of the RHINE and Elector, Duke of BAVARIA, Mar∣quesse of MORAVIA, Duke of LVTZELBVRG, and of SILESIA, Marquesse of Vpper and Lower LVSATIA, &c.TO ALL most Illustrious Electors and Princes, our louing Cozens and Kinsmen, all friendship and good will to the outmost of our power: As also to the Right Honorable, Noble and generous, Earles, Barons, Lordes, and Gentlemen, together with the Mayors, Senate, Communalties, and all o∣thers whatsoeuer holding of vs and our Crowne of BOHE∣MIA, with the Inhabitants and Subiects of their hereditary Lordships, Lands, Teretories, Citties, Castles, Townes and Villages, Grace fauour and all welfare.MOST Illustrious Cozens, Electors and Princes, and most Honourable, Noble and generous loyall Subjects, Wee doubt not but that it is knowne and more then notorious vnto all as∣well within as without the Empire, into what most miserable Estate this Crowne of Bohe∣mia, with the incorporate Countryes thereunto adioy∣ning, hath beene plunged and reduced by their Ad∣uersaries and their Assistants, Ayders and abetters, not onely without lawfull precedent causes, but also of meere enuy, & an vnsatiable desire of reuenge; where∣by most cruelly & barbarously, yea more then Turkes, Tartarians and Infidels there tyrannized vpon, and a∣gainst the Bodies and goods of the Subjects and inha∣bitants of the said Countries, and haue as it were re∣created

their malicious mindes by shedding of innu∣merable innocent Christian Blood, to the great and vnspeakeable damage of many thousands of poore people, and the most lamentable compassion of all confining Countries.
And although in the meane while after lawfull and inforced abdication of Ferdinand the Emperour, and our Election, through Gods singular prouidence and speciall Grace, by the vnanime, orderly, and vnrepro∣uable consent of our loyall Estates of Bohemia and the Countries appertaining thereunto, wee haue desired and aymed at nothing more then that the most hurt∣full and deuouring combustion, warre, and disquietnes of these Countryes might speedily bee appeased and redressed: As also that by the ripe, wise, prouident and carefull aduise and counsaile of our most illustri∣ous Cozens, Allies and Friends, together wit