Poems, and fancies written by the Right Honourable, the Lady Margaret Newcastle.


 [illustration] 
POEMS, AND FANCIES:
WRITTEN By the Right HONOURABLE, the Lady MARGARET Countess of NEWCASTLE.
LONDON, Printed by T. R. for J. Martin, and J. Allestrye at the Bell in Saint Pauls Church Yard, 1653.
THE EPISTLE DEDICATORY: TO SIR CHARLES CAVENDISH, MY Noble Brother-in-Law.SIR,I Do here dedicate this my VVork unto you, not that I think my Book is worthy such a Patron, but that such a Patron may gaine my Book a Respect, and Esteeme in the VVorld, by the favour of your Protection. True it is, Spinning with the Fingers is more proper to our Sexe, then studying or writing Poetry, which is the Spinning with the braine: but I having no skill in the Art of the first (and if I had, I had no hopes of gaining so much as to make me a Gar∣ment to keep me from the cold) made me delight in the latter; since all braines work naturally, and in∣cessantly, in some kinde or other; which made me en∣deavour to Spin a Garment of Memory, to lapp up my Name, that it might grow to after Ages: I
cannot say the VVeb is strong, fine, or evenly Spun, for it is a Course peice; yet I had rather my Name should go meanly clad, then dye with cold; but if the Sute be trimmed with your Favour, shee may make such a shew, and appeare so lovely, as to wed to a Vulgar Fame. But certainely your Bounty hath been the Distaffe, from whence Fate hath Spun the thread of this part of my Life, which Life I wish may be drawne forth in your Service. For your Noble minde is above petty Interest, and such a Courage, as you dare not onely look Misfor∣tunes in the 〈◊〉, but grapple with them in the de∣fence of your Freind; and your kindnesse hath been such, as you have neglected your selfe, even in ordinary Accoutrements, to maintaine the di∣stressed; which shewes you to have such an Affe∣ction, as St. Paul expresses for his Brethren in Christ, who could be accurst for the sakes. And since your Charity is of that Length, and Gene∣rosity of that Height, that no Times, nor For∣tunes can cut shorter, or pull downe lower; I am very confident, the sweetnesse of your 〈◊〉, which I have alwayes found in the delightfull con∣versation of your Company, will never change, but be so humble, as to accept of this Booke, which is the VVork of,
Your most Faithfull Servant, 
M. N.TO ALL NOBLE, AND WORTHY LADIES.Noble, Worthy Ladies,COndemne not as a dishonour of your Sex, for setting forth this Work; for it is harmelesse and free from all dishonesty; I will not say from Va∣nity: for that is so naturall to our Sex, as it were unnaturall, not to be so. Besides, Poetry, which is built upon Fancy, Women may claime, as a worke belonging most properly to themselves: for I have observ'd, that their Braines work usually in a Fantasticall motion:〈◊〉 in their severall, and various 〈◊〉 in their many and sin∣gular choices of Cloaths, and Ribbons, and the like; in their curious shadowing, and mixing of Colours, in their Wrought workes,