Conformity to truth, in knowledge and practice, essential to happiness. A farewell sermon, delivered at Tinmouth, October 28, 1787. / By Benjamin Osborn, A.B. ; [Eleven lines of quotations]


Conformity to Truth, in Knowledge and Practice, essential to Happiness. A FAREWELL SERMON, DELIVERED AT TINMOUTH, OCTOBER 28, 1787.
By BENJAMIN OSBORN, A. B.
O that there were such a heart in them that they would fear me, and keep all my commandments, always, that it might be WELL with them, and with their children forever.
JEHOVAH.Whoever heareth these sayings of mine and DOTH them, I will liken him unto a wise man, who built his house upon a rock.
JESUS CHRIST.Be ye DOERS of the word, and not hearers ONLY.
ST. JAMES.Our needful knowledge, like our needful food,
Unhedg'd, lies open in life's common field,
And bids ALL WELCOME to the vital feast.
If wrong our HEARTS, our HEADS are right in vain.
Dr. YOUNG.STATE OF VERMONT. Printed in BENNINGTON, by HASWELL & RUSSELL, In the Year M, DCC, LXXXVIII.
Conformity to Truth, in Knowledge and Practice, essential to Happiness. A Farewell SERMON.INTRODUCTION.I NOW rise to speak on a very solemn and import|ant subject; in the pro••••ion of which I shall not adopt the method or language of any one (except in a few lines of poetry) but shall make those observations and reflections which my own views and feelings, on this affecting occasion, have suggested to my mind.
THE variety of things that I shall have occasion to mention, will render it necessary for me to be very brief on each particular.
I WOULD now ask your serious, patient, and candid attention, while I attempt, through divine assistance, to speak from those words of our Saviour to his disciples, recorded in
JOHN, xiii.17."If ye know these things, happy are ye if ye do them."

IN the course of divine providence, I am, this day, called, my dear friends, to bid you farewell— You are, this day, to hear my parting address. To bid you farewell (if it is any thing more than mere compliment; if there is any significancy in the phrase) implies a sincere wish that you may be truly happy; happy in time, and happy through eternity.
But you never can be happy; you cannot fare|well in the present world, much less can you farewell in the world to come without the knowledge and practice or those things, which he, upon whom all your temporal and eternal welfare entirely depends, has commanded you to know and observe. If you are diligent in obtaining the knowledge, and faithful in pursuing the practice of those important truths, which the God of nature and the God of grace has revealed in his works and in his word, then I can not only bid you farewell (i. e. sincerely wish your wel|fare) but also assure you that you actually will forev|er farewell. That you will farewell while travelling through this vale of tears. That you will farewell when passing through the valley of the shadow of death. That you will farewell in your intermedi|ate state: That you will farewell in the mornin