A plain and faithful narrative of the original design, rise, progress and present state of the Indian charity-school at Lebanon, in Connecticut. by Eleazar Wheelock, A.M. Pastor of a church in Lebanon. ; [Four lines of Scripture texts]


A plain and faithful NARRATIVE OF THE Original Design, Rise, Progress and present State OF THE Indian Charity-School At LEBANON, in CONNECTICUT.
By Eleazar Wheelock, A.M. PASTOR OF A CHURCH IN LEBANON.
The Liberal deviseth liberal Things, and by liberal Things shall he stand. ISAI. xxxii. 8.The liberal Soul shall be made fat, and he that watereth shall also be watered himself. PROV. xi. 25.BOSTON: Printed by RICHARD and SAMUEL DRAPER, in Newbury-street. M.DCC.LXIII.
TO THE RIGHT HONOURABLE WILLIAM, MARQUIS OF LOTHIAN.May it please your Lordship,THAT CHARITY and dis|interested CARE for the Souls of Men, which make so amia|ble a Part of your Lordship's Character, and give a Lustre and Grace to all those worldly Ho|nours with which God has dig|nified you, and entitle you to the kindest Wishes, and sincer|est Prayers of all who love our LORD JESUS CHRIST, and long for the Enlargement of his

Kingdom in the World; do now embolden me to inscribe the following Narrative to your Lordship, as a Testimonial of my Gratitude, for that repeat|ed Liberality, whereby you have testified your Approba|tion of our feeble Attempts in the important Affair here rela|ted, and given your Sanction to the Plan we have been pro|secuting.
AND as you have animated and encouraged our small Be|ginnings, when we had most need of such Countenance and Assistance; so your Condescen|tion and Generosity have made me solicitous how to manifest

my Gratitude suitably to a Per|sonage of such Distinction.
BUT as your Lordship could propose no other End, besides that which we were pursuing, when you thus opened your Hand for our Assistance there|in, while it was yet small and obscure; so I may reasonably suppose, nothing I can return will give your Lordship more Satisfaction, than a plain, and concise Account of the Progress of it, and our still growing and encreasing Prospects of those good Effects, which will be the only Reward which your Lord|ship could have in View.
iAND though it be presented to your Lordship in a very plain and unfashionable Dress, agree|able to the Country from whence it comes, yet I am perswaded your Lordship will not despise it on that Account, since the Dress, plain and un|fashionable as it is, does so much excel the savage, and sordid Habit, and Appearance of those miserable Creatures, who have so moved your Lord|ship's Compassion as to become the Objects of your Charity and Beneficence. Nor will Modesty itself under such en|dearing and inviting Expres|sions of your Lordship's Con|descention, and Goodness, for|bid
ii
our reposing Confidence in you as our Patron, or indulg|ing the animating Expectation of future Benefit by your smiles on this infant Institution.
MAY the Blessing of many, who shall, in the present and succeeding