Abners funerall, or, a sermon preached at the funerall of that learned and noble knight, Sir Thomas Lucie. By Robert Harris, B.D. and Pastor of the Church at Hanwell, Oxon.: 


Abners Funerall, OR, A SERMON Preached at the Funerall Of that Learned and Noble Knight, SIR THOMAS LVCIE.
By ROBERT HARRIS, B. D. and Pastor of the Church at HANWELL, OXON.
Graves are for me.JOB 17 1.Qui pro nobis mortem semel vicit, semper vincit in nobis.Cyprian, Epist, Secundum Pamelium. 9.LONDON, Printed for Iohn Bartlet, and are to be sould at the signe of the Gilt Cup by Saint Austins Gate, 1641.
TO THE HONOVRABLE AND VERTUOUS, The Ladie LUCIE OF CHARLCOT, Grace and Peace.Madam,STrange not my slownesse. I never penn'd and printed more unchearefully, more sadly. Sorrow moves slowly. And what is this your Ladiship hath now woone from me! alas! I cannot print your Lord alive againe: nor did I intend any pourtraiture of him. What I spake was meant to the Living. The Dead
needed not my attestation. Indeed I loved Him more (as another once said) than to say much of Him. All that I can wish, is, that all, who pretend to Him, and his Religion, would expresse him in these particulars.
 [unspec 1]  1 That they would See with their Owne Eyes, and satisfie themselves in their Owne Grounds.
 [unspec 2]  2 That they would be True to their Owne Principles; that so a man might know where to have them, and see, that they did Believe themselves.
 [unspec 3]  3 That they would Say lesse and Doe more, and so difference themselves from other men, as once some Philoso∣phers did.
 [unspec 4]  4 That they would give leave to Dissent, where Assent cannot be with∣out Dissembling.
It is confessed, Madam, That
Sir Thomas and I were not alwaies of one minde. Dissent we did, in some things: But this I shall ever honour in Him, That He was Himselfe, and his Friends too. Neither prostitu∣ting his owne, nor ravishing another mans judgement; Herein we concur'd, and for this I honoured him, and he was pleased to owne me.
The world conceives my losse to be exceeding great. And it is a truth. For I have lost the Freest Repro∣ver that ever I met withall. But why should we reckon our friends Gaines to our Losses! I have done, Madam, with him.
And now let us (I beseech you) get off from our selves. At least, Let's im∣prove our sorrows to spirituall purposes. Mourne for this Kil-friend, Sin. Mourne for the losse of our time, and
our not inhansing opportunities and societies. And henceforward set our faces Homeward, Heaven-ward. Study Heaven; Secure Heaven; Trade and dwell in Heaven. There looke our selves; thence expect our Sa∣viour.
Meane while consider, Noble Lady, your great trust. A Great E∣state, A great Family. You have ma∣ny Servants to order; Children to edu∣cate; Neighbours to relieve. Here seale up your Thankfulnesse to God; your Faithfulnesse to your Dearest Husband. And the God of Heaven help you. Thus at last I returne you your own. What to call these Funerall Dispatches, I wot not. Yours (suc