An apology for the hope of the Kingdom of Christ appearing within this approaching year, 1697 wherein some of the principal arguments for such an expectation are briefly couch'd and the greater objections answered : presented to the notice and examination of the arch-bishops and bishops now in Parliament assembled / by T. Beverley.


AN APOLOGY For the Hope of the Kingdom of Christ, Appearing Within This Approaching Year, 1697.
Wherein some of the Principal Arguments for such an Expectation are briefly Couch'd, and the Greater Objections Answered.
Presented to the Notice and Examination of the Arch-Bishops and Bishops Now in PARLIAMENT Assembled.
By T. BEVERLEY.
•zek. 10. 13. As concerning the Wheels, It was cryed to them, in my Hear∣ing, Oh! Revolution!LONDON: Printed for, and Sold by Will. Marshal at the Bible in Newgate-Street, and John Marshal at the Bible in Grace-Church-Street, 1697.
An APOLOGY for the Hope of the Kingdom of Christ, Entring Its Succession within this Now Beginning 1697. And an Answer of Principal Objections presented with It.To the Archbishops and Bishops, as in Parliament at This Time Assembled.Most Reverend, Right Reverend,I Have now, by the Space of Fourteen, or Two Weeks of Years, been Serving for that Beautiful-Rachel-State of the Church of Christ, in the place of that Rachel in the Wil∣derness, weeping for her Children in Sackcloth, and under Death; and would not be comforted, Because They were not. I have set my self all along, by Meditation, and Supplication to the Father of Lights, to search out, and by the Assistance of the Spirit of Prophecy, to Find, What, or What Manner of Time the Spirit of Christ did signify, for the Fullfilling that Grand Petition of his Servants; Thy Kingdom come, That thy Name may be Sancti∣fied, and Thy Will done, as in Heaven, and upon Earth; and I am now Wrestling to the Break of Day, and I Hope, the Dawn of the Morning, and Resolv'd, not to Let Go, Till I obtain the Blessing of it.
The Time, that from the First, and throughout, it pleased the Lord of Time to fix upon my Mind, as the Time of That King∣dom Entring into its Succession, and Preparation for its Glory, was, and is, This Approaching 1697. A Year, to which I could have no Temptation, either in Regard of Nearness, or Distance, or on any Account whatever, but as a Scripture-Line of Time, and
 Concurrent Reasons of Prophecy, and History, very many, and in a Series, and Continuation have Led me.
On this Foundation, having Setled, I have by Gracious Vouch∣safements of Help from God, Turn'd my Self to All the Grand Prophetick Points of Scripture▪ and Found New Confirmations, and have Given as Publick Accounts of them, as I could attain, and presented some of Them to Your Selves, and to the Great Councel of the Nation: And in as much as Supreme Goodness hath Granted me to Set up an Eben Ezer, now at the Portal of 97. I have Thought it my Duty to offer this Apology for the Kingdom of Christ so near Approaching; And that The Great Isaa