A defence of the humble remonstrance, against the frivolous and false exceptions of Smectymnvvs wherein the right of leiturgie and episcopacie is clearly vindicated from the vaine cavils, and challenges of the answerers / by the author of the said humble remonstrance ; seconded (in way of appendance) with the judgement of the famous divine of the Palatinate, D. Abrahamvs Scvltetvs, late professor of divinitie in the University of Heidelberg, concerning the divine right of episcopacie, and the no-right of layeldership ; faithfully translated out of his Latine.


A DEFENCE OF THE Humble Remonstrance, Against the frivolous and false exceptions of SMECTYMNVVS.
WHEREIN The right of Leiturgie and Episcopacie is clearly vindicated from the vaine cavils, and challenges of the ANSWERERS.
By the Author of the said Humble Remonstrance.
Seconded (in way of appendance) with the judgement of the famous Divine of the Palatinate, D. ABRAHAMVS SCVLTETVS, Late Professor of DIVINITIE in the UNIVERSITIE of HEIDELBERG: Concerning the Divine Right of EPISCOPACIE, and the No-right of LAY-ELDERSHIP.
Faithfully Translated out of his Latine.
LONDON, Printed for NATHANIEL BUTTER in Pauls Church-yard at the pyde-Bull neare St. Austins gate. 1641.
TO THE KINGS MOST SACRED MAIESTIE.Most dread Soveraigne,YOur Majesty was pleased to cast a gra∣cious eye upon a late Humble Remon∣strance, made to the High Court of Par∣liament, bemoaning the lawelesse fre∣quence of scandalous Libels, and mo∣destly asserting the true right of Li∣turgie and Episcopacie. I little thought that so meek and gall-lesse a Discourse could have irritated any the least opposition; But now, I find to my griefe, that even to move for Peace, is

quarrell enough; and feele many fists about my eares, ere I could imagine to have offended. Occasion is taken from those quiet lines, to combine forces a∣gainst the Cause I maintained. The quarrell is insolently managed by many unknowne hands; Yet, the riot of these impotent Assailants should not easily have drawn me forth, had I not percei∣ved that their confident ostentation and proud carriage in this affray, hath won them some (how undeserved soe∣ver) opinion of skill, with their credu∣lous Abettors; and thereby, some dis∣advantage to my just cause. As one therefore that hates to betray the truth by an unfaithfull silence, I doe cheer∣fully enter these lists; rejoycing to hope that Your Majesties Eye may be the Judge and VVitnesse of my successe. Neither shall it be displeasing to Your

Majestie, that Your most honourable Peeres, and most faithfull Commons, now assembled, shall see the injustice, and ungroundednesse of that bold Ap∣peale, which was made to them, by my daring Answerers; whose Abilities I taxe not, but their Fidelity I must; as those who have sought foulely to abuse their implored Judges with false shews of mis-alledged Antiquity, and meerly colourable pretences of proofs: VVhich if I doe not make good to them and the world in this ensuing Discourse, l