The doctrine of particular election and final perseverance, explained and vindicated. By Isaac Backus, Pastor of a church in Middleborough. ; [Two lines from Romans]


THE DOCTRINE OF PARTICULAR ELECTION AND FINAL PERSEVERANCE, EXPLAINED and VINDICATED. By Isaac Backus, PASTOR OF A CHURCH IN MIDDLEBOROUGH.
Yea, let God be true, but every Man a Liar.—
The Election obtained it, and the Rest were blinded.
Rom. iii. 4. xi. 7.BOSTON: Printed and sold by SAMUEL HALL, at No. 53, Cornhill. MDCCLXXXIX.
ADVERTISEMENT.TEACHERS who turn grace into lasciviousness, have men's persons in admiration because of ad∣vantage. Jude 4, 16. With such, nothing can be too bad to say of any who expose their darling errors, while they will not allow us to be charitable, if we cannot think them all to be good men, whom they ad∣mire. But in what fellows, I have endeavoured to open principles and facts plainly, and to leave every reader to judge of men by their fruits, and not by their plausible pretences.
Middleborough,July 25, 1789.PARTICULAR ELECTION AND FINAL PERSEVERANCE VINDICATED.CONTROVERSY is generally complained of, and peace is earnestly sought; but often in a way, which denies to all others the liberty we claim for ourselves. The revealed will of God is the only perfect law of liberty; but how little is it believed and obeyed by mankind. Both the Hebrew and Christian churches, were to be wholly governed by it; and when the first King of Israel presumed to violate a plain command of God, and then thought to atone for it by acts of worship, he was guilty of rebellion, which is as the sin of witchcraft. 1 Sam. xv. 23. And in like way Mystery Babylon, by her sorceries, has deceived all nations, and in her was found the blood of prophets, and of saints, and of all that were slain upon the earth. Rev. xviii. 23, 24. Yet these extensive terms are so limited by carnal reasoners, that none of them, in any nation, will allow themselves to be of that bloody city. And at the same time they are for extending general words of grace, beyond any li∣mits; and are ready to accuse us with making God deceitful, if we hold that he did not design the merits of his Son, equally for all mankind. If we enquire then, why all are not saved? the general
answer is, that they would not receive that salva∣tion; or if they did for a while, and then turned away from it, God rejects and destroys them there∣for. We readily grant that God always rewards the righteous, and never destroys any for any thing but sin and iniquity; but this cannot content many, without we will allow that grace hath put power into the wills of all mankind, to become righteous, and to obtain salvation, when they shall please to set about it in earnest. The fruit of which is, that men neglect the great salvation, because they love dark∣ness rather than light. Yea, every one that doeth evil, hateth the light. Heb. ii. 3. John iii. 19, 20. And when any are brought to obey the truth, and so come to the light, every art is made