Articles of peace, entercourse, and commerce concluded in the names of the most high and mighty kings, Charles by the grace of God King of Great Britaine, France and Ireland, defender of the faith, &c. and Philip the Fourth King of Spaine, &c. : in a treaty at Madrit, the fift day of Nouember after the old stile, in the yeere of Our Lord God M.DC.XXX. / translated out of Latine into English.


ARTICLES OF PEACE, EN∣TERCOVRSE, AND Commerce, Concluded in the names of the most high and mighty Kings, CHARLES by the grace of God King of Great Britaine, France and Ireland, Defender of the Faith, &c.
And PHILIP the fourth King of Spaine, &c.
In a Treaty at Madrit, the fift day of Nouember after the old Stile, in the yeere of our Lord God M.DC.XXX.
Translated out of Latine into English.
¶ Imprinted at London by Robert Barker, Printer to the Kings most Excellent Maiestie: And by the Assignes of Iohn Bill. 1630.
¶ By the King.WHereas it is found meete and expedi∣ent, vpon weigh∣ty considerations moued to His Ma∣iestie, by the inter∣vention of some of His friends, to lay aside Hostility with the King of Spaine, and so to remooue by faire and peaceable means the cause of the Warre, which hath bred interruption to the Ami∣ty betwixt the two Crownes, vpon assurance giuen His Maiestie here∣of by that King, His most Excel∣lent
 Maiestie hath condescended to renew the ancient Amity, and good intelligence betwixt ye two Crowns, their Realmes, Countreys, Domi∣nions, Vassals and Subiects, And doeth accordingly make knowen to all His louing people, that the sayd Peace and Friendship being so esta∣blished, not onely all Hostilitie and Warre is to cease on both sides from henceforward, But also the former Trade and Commerce, as it stoode in the vse and obseruance of the Treatie, made by His Maiesties blessed Father, is restored and con∣firmed betweene the sayd Kings, their Kingdomes, Territories, and Subiects aswell by Land as Sea and Fresh Waters.
Which His Maiestie hath thought fit to declare vnto all manner of His Subiects, of whatsoeuer estate they be, strictly charging and command∣ing them to obserue and accomplish
 all that hereunto belongeth, As it is certainly promised to be published on the side of the King of Spaine, the Date of these Presents.
Giuen at His Maiesties Palace of West∣minster,the fift day of December, in the sixt yeere of His Maiesties Reigne.God saue the King. [illustration] HONI SOIT QVI MAL Y PENSEDIEV · ET · MON · DROIT
¶ The Preface or Intro∣duction to the Treatie with Spaine.BEcause the pre∣sent effect and be∣nefit of the recon∣ciliatiō lately con∣cluded betwixt the Kings most Excellent Maiestie, and the King of Spaine, will consist in the renewing and frequenting of a free and open Trade by the Subiects of both Crownes, His Maiestie hath thought it expedient for the better encou∣ragement of the Merchants,
 and their direction in the said Commerce, to publish the Arti∣cles of the said Treaty & Peace, being in substance the same with the f