Leges Angliæ, The lawfulness of ecclesiastical jurisdiction in the Church of England asserted and vindicated in answer to Mr. Hickeringill's late pamphlet stiled, Naked truth, the 2d part by Fran. Fullwood ...


LEGES ANGLIAE.
THE LAWFULNESS OF Ecclesiastical Jurisdiction IN THE CHURCH of ENGLAND, Asserted and Vindicated In ANSWER to Mr HICKERINGILL's Late Pamphlet Stiled NAKED TRUTH, the 2d Part.
Gen. II. ult.Naked—but not ashamed.By Fran. Fullwood, D. D. Archdeacon of Totnes in Devon.
LONDON, Printed for R. Royston, Bookseller to the King's most Excellent Majesty, at the Sign of the Angel in Amen-Corner, 1681.
TO THE READERI MUST beg my Readers pardon, that I have not chastified so spiteful an Adver∣sary, according to his merits and provo∣cations; for I verily want his Talent, and dislike the Sport.
I confess that when a Divine of the Church of England, who hath also a share in her Go∣vernment, when such a one shall be taken throwing dirt in the face of his Mother, Fa∣thers, Brethren, and his own Profession, he cannot but expect to be lasht to purpose, and to be told roundly, that none but accursed Children and very fools would speak such Na∣ked Truth.
Some Censors, that observe his endeavours, to make not only the Canons of the Church, but the very Canon of Scripture it self to vail to the Law of the Land, would charge him with the profaneness of Hobbs: yea, others that find him playing tricks, and sporting (according to his little wit) with the very names of Ca∣non, Clergie, Church and Church-men; and scoffing at almost all that's Sacred, will take
 him to be at Hugh Peters's game, and running his wretched race.
But while he damns the Presbyterians, Inde∣pendents, and the Fifth-Monarchy, together with the Church of England, he tempts the Wits to produce thirty one reasons to prove he is something, viz. a Papist; notwith∣standing his drollery and railery about Foppery and Popery.
Lastly, For Pride, Envy, Wrath, Malice, Spite and Revenge, some say he is a very Angel of Light, and in somewhat more excellent; for the Scriptures witness that the Devil him∣self spake many words both of truth and sober∣ness; and that he seldom or never speaks like an Atheist.
For my part, I say nothing of him further than this, That if others can find Truth in the man, I cannot: And though I am sure he lies open and naked enough, yet I had never troubled my self to expose him, had it not been to secure the Government, and to preserve the Simple from being betray'd to the danger of the Laws by the insolent Rant of a pitiful Sophister.
THE PROEMEThe Contents of it.1. Power purely Spiritual of Di∣vine Right. 2. Emperors con∣firm'd Bishops-Canons. 3. The force of our Canons not from Rome. 4. Officers of our Courts. 5. Magna Charta. 6. The Authors Concessions.
1. DIscoursing in the following Treatise of the Forensic Jurisdiction of this Church, as Establish'd by the Law of the Land, we had no direct or necessary occa∣sion to speak of the Churches Power, as purely Spiritu