A second warning to America. By Elam Potter, M.A. Minister of the Gospel. ; [Three lines of Scripture text]


A SECOND WARNING TO AMERICA.
By ELAMPOTTER, M. A. Minister of the Gospel.
Behold, he cometh with Clouds; and every Eye shall see him, and they also which pierced him; and all kindreds of the Earth shall wail because of him. Even so Amen.
St. JOHN.HARTFORD: Printed by HANNAH WATSON.
A second WARNING to America.REVELATIONS iii, 22.He that hath an ear, let him bear what the Spirit saith unto the Churches.THIS book is the revelation, which God gave unto his Son, and which he sent and signified by his angel unto his servant John, in the island of Patmos, to which, for the word of God and the testimony of Je|sus, he was banished by Domitian, which is supposed to have been about the year 96.
This book contains a wounderful vision that St. John had, which opened to him while he was in the spirit on the Lord's •ay: It opened with a great voice, as of a trumpet, and with a most magnificient appear|ance of our blessed Lord, holding seven stars in his right hand, and walking in the midst of seven golden candlesticks, which being too much for mortal eye to endure, John fell at his feet as dead; but our Lord recovered him, and bid him write the things that he revealed.
And 〈◊〉 we have seven messengers to the seven Churches in Asia.
These epistles agree much in their general form, but in the matter of address vary according as the state of the churches varied, to whom they were inscribed; and yet often what was said to one church agreed to others.
In each epistle he, who walks amidst the golden candlesticks, assures the churches that he knows their works. Our Lord commends every church except that of the Laodiceans, for something he found good among them; and reproved every church, except that in Philadelphia, for what he found had among them.

By the most awful threatenings he warns the remiss; and by the most glorious promises he encourages the faith|ful. The wonderful titles of our Lord, in these epistles seem to agree to the particular state of the churches to which they were sent. Each epistle was directed to the angel of the church, that is, to the minister, who seems to be considered as a represetative of the whole church; and yet some things in these epistles might be peculiar|ly applicable to the minister himself. In the close of each epistle we have the solemn injunction in our text: He that hath an ear, let him hear what the spirit faith unto the churches.
That is, let him hear with all attention; God plant|ed the ear for this purpose and he that does not im|prove it in this manner will soon wish that he never had an ear. Let him hear what the glorious Immanual, the prince of life saith; this is he which liveth and was dead and is alive forever more, and hath the keys of hell and death; this is also he which hath the sharp sword with two edges; let him hear what he saith; his voice is as the sound of many waters; let him hear what he faith in