Acts made the 7th Assembly & 7th sessions. Beginning the second day of March, 1698. [1699, New Style] and ending the 16th day of May, 1699. Anno regni Regis Gulielmi tertij. Angliae, Scotiae, Franciae & Hiberniae, undecim.


 [illustration]  Acts made the 7th Assembly & 7th Sessions.Beginning
the second Day of March, 1698.
and ending
the 16th day of May, 1699.Anno Regni Regis Gulielmi Tertij. Angliae, Scotiae, Franciae & Hiberniae, Ʋnd•cim.An Act for granting unto his Majesty several Duties for the defraying the publick Charge of the Government after the time limitted in an Act, entituled, An Act confirming and continuing unto Their Majesties the Revenue established by an Act of General Assembly for defraying the Publick and Necessary Charge of the Government, is expired.WHereas the Act of Assembly, entituled, An Act confi•ming and continuing unto their Majesties the Revenue established by an Act of General Assembly made in the fourth Year of their Majesties Reign, for defraying the Publick and Necessary Charges of the Government, five years longer than the Term therein mentioned▪ doth expire by its own Limitation upon the 18th day of May, which shall be in the year of our Lord 1700. And whereas the great Happiness which hath attended this Province since his Majesties auspicions Reign, doth call for the grateful Acknowledgement of all the good Subjects of this his Majesties Province, for so great a blessing, which by the goodness of Almighty God this and all his M•jesties Kingdoms, and other Dominions, do enjoy under his gracious and vigilent Government. In most humble sence whereof, the Representa|tives convened in General Assembly, having also in their Consideration the extraordinary Care which his Majesty hath at all times taken for the S•fe•y and Wellfare of this Province; and being willing to give such fresh Demon|stra•ions and Assurances of their constant and unshaken L•yalty, and most Dutiful Affections unto his most Excellent Majesty, do therefore freely and

heartily give and grant unto his most Excellent Majesty, for and during the time▪ term and space of six years, from and after the 18th day of May, which shall be in the year of our Lord 1700. the Rates, Duties, Excise and Sums of Money herein after mentioned, for the defraying the nec•ssary Charge of the Government. And do most humbl• pray that it may be Enacted, and be it therefore Enacted by his Excellency, the Gove•nour, and Council, and Representatives convened in General Assembly. And it is hereby Enacted by the Authority of the same, That there shall be rai•ed, levyed, collected, paid and satisfied unto his Majesty, for the time, term and space of six years, from and after the said 18th day of May, which shall be in the year of our Lord 1700. for the U•e aforesaid, the Rates, Duties, Impositions & Excise upon the Goods, Wares, Merchandizes, Furs, Wines and other Liquors herein after menti|oned, in manner and form following, that is to say,
For every Gallon of Rum, Brandy, and D