The second tome of the Palace of pleasure conteyning store of goodly histories, tragicall matters, and other morall argument, very requisite for delighte and profit. Chosen and selected out of diuers good and commendable authors: by William Painter, clerke of the ordinance and armarie. Anno. 1567.


The second Tome of the Palace of Pleasure, conteyning store of goodly Histories, Tragicall matters, and other Mo∣rall argument, very re∣quisite for delighte and profit.
Chosen and selected out of diuers good and commen∣dable Authors:
By William Painter, Clerke of the Ordinance and Armarie. ANNO. 1567.
Imprinted at London, in Pater Noster Rowe, by Henry Bynneman, for Nicholas England.
¶ To the right worship∣full Sir George Howarde Knighte, Master of the Quenes Maiesties Armarie.EVerie Science hauing hys peculiar cōmoditie, and conducing to the trauailer and diligent searcher, a due de∣serued benefite (bysides the exercise and shunning the pestilent monster Idlenesse) discloseth the miraculous effect of the Di∣uinitie and the excellencie of his Creature: Who breathing life into that sencelesse work, framed within the mould of humane Conception, forceth in him by Nature and timely institution, such capacitie of Science, as not only by that knowledge he glo∣rifieth his Creator, but also besides himselfe, helpeth and dothe good to other. For profe wherof, the Science of that surpassing and delightsome pasture of Theologie, is profitable to teach, argue, reproue, and instruct, that by paciēce and consolatiō, we may conceue hope of Eternitie. The knowlege of Philosophie cureth the minde, auoideth childish care, expelleth feare, and shunneth fonde desires. O Philosophie, the guide of life (excla∣meth Tullie) the inquisitor of Vertue, and expeller of vice. Rhetorike (affirmeth he) causeth vs to learne that we knowe not, and that we know, to teach to other: By the same we ex∣hort, with that we persuade, with that we cōfort the afflicted, by it we incourage the astonned, and appease the outragious. Musike easeth the troubled mind, lenifieth sorowe, comforteth the heauie hearted, and erecteth a contemplation of heauenly things. Astronomie reuealeth the nature of the Starres and Planets, presageth dayes and times for the helpe and mainte∣nance of life. Poesie teacheth amendement of maners, direc∣teth what things be mete for imitation, and with what detri∣ment wantonnesse anoyeth the bodie of man. By meanes of it

(Saint Augustine saith) he learned many good lessons to 〈◊〉 fite himselfe, and doe good to other. To be short, euery 〈◊〉 so necessarie, as the same taken away, Reason is depriued, 〈◊〉 the Life of man, of due order and 〈◊〉〈◊〉 Thinke (sayth a Greke Orator) the knowledge of many 〈◊〉 to be more precious and excellent, than a chest heaped vp 〈◊〉 abundance of money: for the one quickly faileth, and the 〈◊〉 for euer lasteth. For, Scientia (affirmeth he) is the onely 〈◊〉 mortall storehouse of all possessions: Amongs which troupe 〈◊〉 Sciences the knowledge and