Several propositions presented to the members of the Honourable House of Commons, by Mr. Peters, Minister of the Gospell of Jesus Christ; concerning the Presbyterian ministers of this kingdome. With a discovery of two great plots against the Parliament of England: the first, by the Queen, and the English runagadoes in France. The second, by the Lord Hopton, Col. Cartwright, and divers others in the island of Jarsey. Also, a declaration of His Highnesse the Prince of Wales in France.


SEVERALL
PROPOSITIONS
PRESENTED
To the Members of the Honourable House
of COMMONS, by Mr. PETERS, Minister of the Gospell
of Jesus CHRIST; Concerning the Presbyterian
Ministers of this KINGDOME.
WITH
A Discovery of two great Plots against the
PARLIAMENT of ENGLAND:
THE FIRST,
By the QVEEN, and the English Runa∣gadoes
in FRANCE.
THE SECOND,
By the Lord Hopton, Col. Cartwright, and divers
others in the Island of JARSEY.
ALSO,
A Declaration of His Highnesse the Prince of
WALES in FRANCE.
LONDON, Printed for J. G. Decemb. 1. 1646.
Mr. PETERS
REPORTS
TO
The Honourable Committee of both King∣domes;
concerning the speedy reducing
of the Irish Rebels.FIrst, he desireth, that there may be a speedy
course taken for the setling of the poore, di∣stressed,
and bleeding Kingdom of Ireland,
in peace and unity, & that there may be some pain∣full
and religious Ministers (both Presbyterians
and others) forthwith expedited for that service.
Secondly, that all possible care may be taken for

the sending over provisions and other necessaries
for reliefe of the poor distressed Protestants.
Thirdly, that all Commanders whatsoever that
are under the Command of the Parliament of
England, may forthwith be sent over, for the per∣formance
of the Great Trust reposed in them, that
so the Cause of Ireland may be no longer detarded,
but with all faithfulnesse and expediency perfor∣med
for the easing of our distressed Brethren from
the heavie oppressions which they have for many
yeares groaned under.
Thus having given you (in briefe) the effect and substance
of the Propositions or Report of (the renowned Worthy of
our Times) Mr. PETERS, upon Friday last, concerning the
managing of the Affaires for the Kingdom of Ireland; I will
in the next place communicate unto you, the dangerous e∣state
and condition of this our native Kingdom of England;
by reason of the manifold Plots and Conspiracies which are
dayly acting and contriving (by the Enemies of GOD) against
the Worthies of England, the High and Honourable Court of
Parliament: Yet all their Machavillian Plots, and horrid con∣spiracies
have been frustrated, and taken no effect; For when
they were in the height of their pride, and (almost) upon the
finishing of their wicked Conspiracies, it pleased God to dis∣cover
and bring to light all their barbarous and inhumane in∣tentions:
Yet these great and malicious Instruments, which
have been for many yeares together, the chiefe Disturbers of
the Peace and Tranquility of England, whose hearts have bin
invet