A just and impartial account of the transactions of the merchants in London, for the advancement of the price of tobacco. About the latter end of the year 1727, and beginning of 1728. / By Henry Darnall. Who was present at most of them. ; In a letter from him, to the inhabitants of Maryland dated September 18, 1728.


A Just and Impartial ACCOUNT OF THE TRANSACTIONS OF THE Merchants in LONDON, FOR THE Advancement of the Price of TOBACCO.
About the latter End of the Year 1727, and Beginning of 1728.
By HENRY DARNALL. Who was present at most of them.
IN A LETTER FROM HIM, To the Inhabitant, of MARYLAND Dated September 18, 1728.
ANNAPOLIS Printed and Sold by W. Parks.
A just Account of the Transactions of the Merchants, for the Advancement of the Tobacco-Trade, &c.Gentlemen,Sept. 18. 1728._I AM fully persuaded, that I cannot furnish my Friends and Countrymen with a more agreeable Entertainment, than in acquainting them with what w•s done by the Merchants in Lon|don, who tr•de to Maryland and Vir|ginia, whilst I stayed there, for the Relief of our most deplorable Trade. And, as the only effectual Means to communicate to the Publick a just and impartial Account of those Transactions, is, to have Recourse to the PRESS, I have there|fore taken this Method to inf•rm them, that (upon a due Consideration of the melancholly St•te of our Trade) I thought I could not better employ my Time, for the Service of my Country, my Self, and Posterity, than by using my utmost Endeavours to bring the Merchants there, to frequent Meetings to|gether, in order to consider of some Means for our Relief, which I was the more induced to attempt, as I was well ass•red from the Gentlemen themselves, th•t one of the chief Causes of the melancholly St•te of our Trade, was owing to their Disagree|m•nt am•ngst themselves. Therefore, I took some 〈◊〉 to preva•l with them, to unite themsel•es into a 〈◊〉 and to act in Concert for the future▪ And

tho' those Endeavours were attended with some Dif|ficulties, which were chiefly occasioned by the Dif|fidence they had in one another; (for which they all complained there was too much Reason, from the Experience of their former Meetings, when the Measures then concerted, and Agreements made, were continually broke thro', whereby those who intented honestly to keep them were the Sufferers, and the Trangressors not only run away with the present Ad|vantage there, but also with the Applause and En|couragement from hence) Yet, as this seemed to be the chief Objection, it was at length removed, by re|presenting to them the Necessity they were under, to make one more Experiment, in hopes that Agreements would now be better kept than they have been here|tofore; or that such Persons who would not come into, or bre•k Measures, after they had agreed to them, would certainly be here distinguished, and thereby occasion them to suffer in their Interest: But above all, by the assiduous Endeavours of Mr. Iohn Falconar, who seconded my Attempt very vigorousl