Tvvo sermons vpon 1. Peter 5. vers .8. and 9 Wherein is shewed that the diuell is to be resisted only by a stedfast faith, how soeuer he commeth either against soule or body: and that whosoeuer hath once attained the true and liuelie faith, it can neuer be vtterly lost, but he is sure to get the victorie. By M. George Giffard, Preacher of the worde of God at Mauldon in Essex.



TVVO SERMONS vpon 1. Peter 5. vers. 8. and 9. Wherein is shewed that the diuell is to be resisted only by a stedfast faith, how soeuer he commeth either against soule or body: and that whosoeuer hath once attained the true and liuelie faith, it can neuer be vtterly lost, but he is sure to get the vic∣torie.
By M. George Giffard, Preacher of the worde of God at Mauldon in Essex.
LONDON, Printed by Felix Kingston, for Thomas Man. 1597.

TO THE RIGHT WORSHIPFVLL M. Ioseph Bainham Esquire, and to Mistresse Ione Bainham his Wife.SIR, when J call to minde the reuerent and holy me∣mory of that godly Mar∣tyr both of your name, countrie, and house, M. Iames Bain∣ham, who died most constantly for the truth of the Gospell, as we haue his sto∣ry at large described in M. Fox, pag. 1030. and consider withall the great mercie of God, in continuing still vn∣to that VVorshipfull name and stocke, the same light of faith, and zeale of the truth, and holynes of profession: J no∣thing
doubt to say vnto you, as some∣time the holy Apostle wrote vnto Ti∣mothie, When I call to remem∣brance the vnfayned faith that is in thee, which dwelt first in thy Grandmother Lois, and in thy Mother Eunice, and am assured that it dwelleth in thee also, 2. Tim. 1.5. So it cannot be but a great ioy and comfort to those that feare God, to see the posteritie of Martyrs, to retayne still the holy faith and profession of Martyrs: not only to be of their earth∣ly linage, but of the spirituall kindred also: not to be next them only in gene∣ration, but to folow them in regenera∣tion. And this example of your owne cloth, as it is vnto vs an occasion of reioycing, so to you it must serue, not as a spur to pricke you, but as a starre to direct you, and a line to leade & draw
you forward to al holy encrease of faith and zeale. That holy man, as he was vertuous in his life, deuoute in prayer, sound in faith, patient in his afflicti∣ons; so most of all was he constant and cheerefull in his death: who in the midst of his torments, and out of the raging flames of fire, thus spake with a comfortable and heauenly voyce: O yee Papists, behold, yee looke for miracles, & here now you may see a miracle, for in this fire I feele no more paine, then if I were in a bed of downe: but it is to me as sweet as a bed of Roses. How ought wee now to honor the memorie of this bles∣sed man, and how much are you to praise God, that hath giuen you out of your worshipfull house so worthie an example and encouragement to all Christian proceeding? J saye againe
with the same Apostle. Wherefore I put you in remembrance that you stirre vp the gift of G