A letter from the Commission of the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland, met at Glasgow, July 21, 1699 to the Honourable Council, and inhabitants of the Scots colony of Caledonia, in America.


A LETTER, FROM THE COMMISSION, OF THE General Assembly, OF THE CHURCH OF SCOTLAND; Met at Glasgow, July 21, 1699.
TO THE Honourable Council, and Inhabitants, of the Scots Colony of Caledonia, in America.
EDINBƲRGH, Printed by GEORGE MOSMAN, and are to be sold at his 〈…〉
〈1 page missing〉Pavement of that most Glorious City; And after all the Acquisitions of this World, what is a Man Profited if he lose his own Soul?
Let such as are yet Strangers to Christ, Repent of all their Sins, commit∣ted in Scotland, or since their Arrival In their new Dwellings, and consider with Astonishment, with Gratitude, with relenting Sorrow and Shame, how ma∣ny hundred of Leagues they have been carried safe, through the Vast Abyss, when there was but the thickness of a Plank betwixt them and Death, and consequently between them and Hell; How near they have bordered, upon the confines of Eternity; and how dreadful it will be at last. if the Waves and Billows of Divine Wrath shall go over their Souls forever. This is the Doom that every Sinner must undergo by himself, if it be not taken off by his Surety; and such as fly not to the Gospel-Sanctuary, and Refuge, their Sin will surely find them out, wherever they go.
We do most earnestly Intreat and Obtest You, the Honourable and Wor∣thy Persons, in whose Hands the Government is Lodged, That ye not only be shining Patterns your Selves, in all Sobriety, Holiness and Vertue, But that, with the outmost Diligence, and vigilant Care, you procure, that the Deportment and Behaviour, of all under your Authority and Influence, be such as becometh the Gospel; by Commanding every one to do their Duty, by enacting strict and wholesome Laws, and Executing those Laws impar∣tially, and speedily; That no Wickedness be Countenanced, or in the least connived at; For why should you bring Wrath upon your selves, and the Land, and provock the Holy God to blast all your Undetakings? And why should you Forfeit His Blessing and Favour, promised to Righteous Rulers, and make your Selves Partakers of other Mens Sins? For whatever is com∣mitted thro' your Forbearance, and Remisness in Government, is justly Chargable on you: Every Man is Guilty of that Sin which he Reproves not, which he does not Testifie against, which he can, but neglects to hinder in another; But most of all, such as are Rulers of others, and must give an Ac∣count of them to God, as well as of themselves. Thou shalt not hate thy Bro∣ther in thy Heart, thou shalt in any ways rebuke thy Neighbour,and not suffer Sin upon him: And in the Margin it reads, That thou bear not Sin for him: This is a Law given unto all; But the peculiar End of Magistracy is, to be a Ter∣ror unto Evil doers, and for the Praise of them that do Well; To set their Eyes of Favour upon the Faithful of the Land; and