An aunswer to sixe reasons, that Thomas Pownde, Gentleman, and prisoner in the Marshalsey. at the commaundement of her Maiesties Commissioners, for causes Ecclesisasticall: required to be aunswered Because these reasons doo moue him to think, that controuersies and doubts in religion, may not be iudged by the Scriptures, but that the Scriptures must be iudged by the Catholique Church. ... Written by Robert Crovvley.


An Aunswer to sixe Reasons, that
Thomas Pownde, Gentleman, and
Prisoner in the Marshalsey. at the commaunde∣ment
of her Maiesties Commissioners, for causes Ecclesiasti∣call:
required to be aunswered. Because these Reasons
doo moue him to think, that controuersies and doubts in
Religion, may not be Iudged by the Scriptures,
but that the Scriptures must be Iudged
by the Catholique Church.
1. The first is, for that the Scriptures are mute and dum.2. The second, for that they be full of harde and deepe
mysteries.3. The thirde, for that S. Peter sayth: No Scripture is to
be taken after any priuate interpretation.4. The fourth, for that to appeale to the Scriptures,
dooth seeme to denie all vnwritten verities.5. The fyft is, for that it were a great absurditie, not to
haue a certaine Iudge of absolute Authoritie, in the
interpreting of Scriptures. &c.6. The sixt is, for that in refusing the Authoritie of the
Churches absolute Iudgement herein: we seeme to
denie the holie ghost, to be the spirite of trueth.Written by Robert Crovvley.
¶Imprinted at London by John
Charlewood. 1581.
¶To all the Pope his Catholiques,
in England or else where.IN September last,
I with others, was by suffici∣ent
Authoritie, appointed to
cōfer, with such of your sort,
as at that tyme, were in her
Maiesties prisons, of the Mar∣shalsey
& the white Lion, in
Sowthwark, restrained of ly∣bertie,
for refusing to con∣forme
themselues to that order of Religiō, which is now
publique in this Realme of England. And according to
our duety in that behalfe: Maister Henrie Tryp, and I, did
(as we were required) make our spedy repaire, first to the
one prison, and then to the other. And after some confe∣rence
had with certain that were close prisoners: we came
to confer with one Maister Thomas Povvnde Gentleman,
in the lodging where he then laye. And finding him al∣togeather
vnwylling to enter into any conference by
speaches, because (as he sayd) he feared to fall into daun∣ger
of Lawe therby: I aunswered, that he ought to haue a
better opinion of her Maiestie, (by whose appointment,
we were come to offer cōference) then to thinke that she
would send vs, to entrap him, or any other her subiects.
For she needeth not to seeke more aduantage against a∣ny
of them, then that which already by their disloyall
behauiour they haue giuē her. So that if she would pro∣ceede
against them in rigour of lawe, and not in mercie:
she might cut their heads from their shoulders, and make
no more to doo with them. But being desirous, by some
meanes to bring to passe, that they might become as o∣b