The Geneva ballad To the tune of 48.


The GENEVA BALLAD.To the Tune of 48.
OF all the Factions in the Town,
Mov'd by French Springs or Flemish Wheels,
None treads Religion upside down,
Or tears Pretences out at heels,
Like Splay-mouth with his brace of Caps
Whose Conscience might be scan'd per∣haps
By the Dimensions of his Chaps.

He whom the Sisters so adore,
Counting his Actions all Divine,
Who when the Spirit hints, can roar,
And if occasion serves can whine;
Nay he can bellow, bray or bark.
Was ever sike a Beuk-larn'd Clerk,
That speaks all Lingua's of the Ark.

To draw in Proselytes like Bees,
With pleasing Twang he tones his Prose,
He gives his Hand-kerchief a squeez,
And draws John Calvin through his Nose.
Motive on Motive he obtrudes,
With Slip-stocking Similitudes,
Eight Uses more, and so concludes.

When Monarchy began to bleed,
And Treason had a fine new name;
When Thames was balderdash'd with Tweed,
And Pulpits did like Beacons flame;
When Jeroboam's Calves were rear'd,
And Laud was neither lov'd nor fear'd,
This Gospel-Comet first appear'd.

Soon his unhallowed Fingers strip'd
His Sov'reign Liege of Power and Land,
And having smote his Master, slip'd
His Sword into his Fellows hand.
But he that wears his Eyes may note,
Oftimes the Butcher binds a Goat,
And leaves his Boy to cut her Throat.

Poor England felt his Fury then
Out-weigh'd Queen Mary's many grains;
His very Preaching slew more men,
Than Bonner's Faggots, Stakes and Chains.
With Dog-star Zeal and Lungs like Boreas,
He fought and taught; and what's notorious,
Destroy'd his Lord to make him Glorious.

Yet drew for King and Parlement.
As if the Wind could stand North-South;
Broke Moses's Law with blest intent,
Murther'd and then he wip'd his mouth.
Oblivion alters not his case,
Nor Clemency nor Acts of Grace
Can blanch an Aethiopian's Face.

Ripe for Rebellion he begins
To rally up the Saints in swarms,
He bauls aloud, Sirs, leave your Sins,
But whispers, Boys, stand to your Arms,
Thus he's grown insolently rude,
Thinking his Gods can't be subdu'd,
Money, I mean, and Multitude.

Magistrates he regards no more
Than St. George or the Kings of Colen;
Vowing he'l not conform before
The Old-wives wind their Dead in Woollen.
He calls the Bishop, Grey-beard Goff,
And makes his Power as mere a Scoff,
As Dagon, when his Hands were off.

Hark! how he opens with full Cry!
Halloo my Hearts, beware of ROME.
Cowards that are afraid to die
Thus make domestick Broils at home.
How quietly Great CHARLES might reign,
Would all these Hot-spurs cross the Main,
And preach down Popery in Spain.

The starry Rule of Heaven is fixt,
There's no Dissension in the Sky:
And can there be a Mean betwixt
Confusion and Conformity?
A Place divided never thrives:
'Tis bad where Hornets dwell in Hives,
But worse where Children play with Knives.

I would as soon turn back to Mass,
Or change my Phrase to Thee and Thou;
Let the Pope ride me like an Ass,
And his Priests milk me like a Cow:
As buckle to Smectymnuan L