The character and work of a good ruler, and the duty of an obliged people. A sermon preach'd before His Excellency William Shirley, Esq; the Honourable His Majesty's Council, and House of Representatives of the province of the Massachusetts-Bay in New-England, May 29th. 1745. Being the anniversary for the election of His Majesty's Council for the province. / By Ebenezer Gay, A.M. Pastor of the Church in Hingham. ; [Two lines of Scripture texts]


Mr. GAY'S Election SERMON. May 29th. 1745.
The Character and Work of a good Ruler, and the Duty of an obliged People.
A SERMON Preach'd before his Exellency William Shirley, Esq; the Honourable His Majesty's COUNCIL, AND House of REPRESENTATIVES of the Province of the Massachusetts-Bay in New-England, May 29th 1745.
Being the Anniversary for the ELECTION of his Majesty's COUNCIL for the Province. By Ebenezer Gay, A. M. Pastor of the Church Hingham.
Psal. cxxxii. 17.—I have ordained a Lamp for mine Anointed.2 Sam. xvii. 8.—Thy Father is a Man of War.BOSTON in NEW-ENGLAND: Printed for Daniel Gookin in Marlborough-street, over against the Old South Meeting-House, 1745.
In the House of Representatives, May 30, 1745.Ordered,
_THAT Col. Quincy, Mr. Jacob Cushing, and Mr. Lewis, be directed to give the Thanks of the House to the Rev. Mr. Ebenezer Gay of Hingham, for his Sermon preach'd yesterday before the General Court, being the Anni|versary for the ELECTION of COUN|SELLORS, and desire a Copy thereof for the Press.
T. Cushing, Speaker.AN Election-Sermon.II SAM. xxi. 17. the latter Part.—Then the Men of David sware unto him, saying, Thou shalt go no more out with us to Battle, that thou quench act the Light of Israel._A Mutual good Affection between Prince and People, engaging them to their respective Duties, and shewing itself in the Expressions of a tender Con|cern for the Safety and Comfort of each other, is always desireable, and perculiarly so in perilous Times. 'Tis (if I mistake not) exemplify'd in this historical Passage of sacred Scripture; and may, on the present Occasion, be seasonably recommended therefrom.
The great King David was Man of War, emi|nently qualified, not only to sit on the Throne, and judge his Pople, but also to march at the Head of Armies into the Field, and fight their Battles. And

by his martial Skill and Atchievements, as well as by his consummate Policy, just and pious Admini|stration, his Reign was glorious to himself, and happy to his Subjects. It seems to be in the latter End of it, when he was weaken'd with Age, that we here find him at War with the Philistines, in which he waxed saint. Ishhi-henob, which was of the Sons of the Giant, perceiving that David's Strength fail'd him, set upon him with greater Fury, and thought to have slain the King,
and so defeated the Host of Israel. But Abishai, the Son Zeruiah, succoured him, and smote the Philistine, and killed him. Up|on the King's escaping so great a Danger, his Men resolv'd in Council, and confirm'd it with an Oath, tha