Nathanael Brook, stationer at the Angel in Cornhil, to the reader


NATHANAEL BROOK Stationer at the Angel in Cornhil, to the Reader.The worthy, learned and most accomplished Edward Sherburne Esquire, Clerk of His Majesties Ordnance, having been pleased to convert the Ancient Astronomical Latin Poem of Manilius on the Sphere into a polite and elegant English one, hath more∣over interlaced the same with Annotations concerning the Discoveries and Inventi∣ons of the Moderns, and hath subjoyned a large Catalogue of Astronomers and their Writings, amongst which he takes notice of Mr. John Collins; in the Narrative con∣cerning whom, there is an account of many excellent Mathematical Treatises lost through want of due encouragement to print the same, and there being affairs of that nature proposed to my self and others to undertake, which will be too heavy a burden without the advice, assistance and encouragement of Learned and Noble Perso∣nages; concerning which perchance there may be particular Proposals hereafter print∣ed: however to shew my willingness to promote such Designs, and the ill consequences of letting them sink, I have caused so much out of that Book, as concerns the said Mr. Collins, and the abovementioned Narratvie to be printed apart, as followeth:
MAster JOHN COLLINS Accomptant, and a Member of the Royal So∣ciety, published in the year 1658. his Treatise entituled The Sector on a Qua∣drant, in which there are very curious Prints of two great Quadrants, and of two small Quadrants with particular Projections on them, serving for the Latitude of London; Albeit by Aid of other Lines each of those Quadrants is rendred Universal for Astro∣nomical Use, as, finding the Hour and Azimuth, and other Spherical Proportions; The Author's chief Design in publishing such Prints, was to shew the World that the said Prints might be pasted on Copper or Brass, and so varnished, as to be rendred preservable from Dirt, or sullying, and sold at a cheap Rate, as now they are.
In 1659. he published his Treatise of Navigation, entituled the Mariners Plain Scale new Plained. In which, besides Projections of the Sphere, there are Constructi∣ons for many Astronomical Problems, and Spherical Proportions. The Book hath found good Acceptance, and is now like to become a Common Theme to the Scholars of Christ's Hospital London, whereof forty (by His Majesty's Bounty, and to His Im∣mortal Renown in Establishing a Lecturer to instruct them) are constantly to be taught Navigation, and e're long 'tis to be hoped the Author will reprint the same with considerable Additions.
The same year he published a Treatise of Geometrical Dyalling, of good Esteem, both for the Newness and easiness of Method in situating the Requisites, and draw∣ing the Hour-Lines. In which there being Spherical Proportions, and some Astrono∣mical Problems, it deserves to be remembred in this Catalogue.
In the year 1667. he published in the Philosophical Transactions the Solution of a Problem concernin