The discription of the cittie of Excester, collected and gathered by Iohn Vowel alias Hooker, gentelman and chamberlain of the same cittie


 [illustration] THE DISCRIPTION OF the Cittie of Excester, collected and gathered by Iohn Vowel alias Hooker, gentle∣man, and Chamberlain of the same Cittie.EXcester or Exeter is a famouse and ancient Cittie, béeing the Metropole and Emporium of the west parts of England, scitu∣ated in the Prouince called Deuonia, which is Deuonshéer. Of the first foundation therof (by reason of the sundry inuations of forrain and straunge nations, and of their hostilities and mortall warres, in burning and destroying this Cittie) there remaineth no cer¦tain memoriall, neither emong the records of the said Cittie, nor yet in any other writer. But moste certain it is that it was first builded by the Brutes or Britons, for the names which they gaue vnto it: are yet at these presents had in remembraunce, as wel emong the Cronographers of this Realme: as also emong the Cornish people, who sometimes were one with this Pro∣uince, but are now in a Prouince of themselues and borderers to this, béeing the remanent of the blood of Brutus.
For when Cadwalader King of this land by reason of a great famin and Pestilence, was inforced to forsake the same and flée into little Britain (which now is vnder the dicion of the French King) diuers and moste parte of his people fled also, some into Wales and some into Cornwall, wher euer sithēce they and after them their posteritie haue remained and con∣tinued.
The olde Cronographers serchers, and writers of anti∣quities, doo finde that this Cittie was called Corinia, and ther∣of the Monaltary of this Cittie was called Ecclesia Corini∣ensis: whiche name if it were first giuen as it should seem by Corineus, who after the ariuall of Brutus into this land, was made the first Duke of these two Prouinces of Deuon, and Cornwall, and who thē after his owne name called it Corinia,
but now Corinibia, wherof this Cittie euer hath béen and is the Metropolie and Emporium and alwaies parcel, some∣times of ye kingdome, then of the Duchie, & afterwardes of the Earledome, and now again the Duchie of Cornewall, out of all dout it is of no lesse antiquitie then the said names doo im∣porte.
The Britons in their fung call it by sundry and diuers names. The first and eldest in remembraunce in their spéech is Cairpenhulgoyte, that is to say, the prosperous chéef Town in the wood, as it dooth appéer by Geftery of Monmoth and Ponticus Virimus. It was also called Penhaltcayr, that is to say, the chéef Cittie or Town vpon the hil, as appéereth in the trauerse betwéen the Bishop, Dean, and Chapter of this Cit∣tie, and the Mayor and comminaltie of the same: in a long sute concerning their liberties.
But the names which the Cornish people doo at these pre∣sents remember & retain are Pencayr, Cayrruthe, Cayrriske. Pencayr is to say the chéef Cittie. Cayrruthe signifieth the red Cittie, taking that name of the soyle of the gr