Lectures vpon the Epistle of Paul to the Colossians. Preached by that faithfull seruant of God, Maister Robert Rollok, sometime rector of the Vniuersitie of Edenburgh



LECTVRES VPON THE EPI∣STLE OF PAVL TO THE COLOSSIANS. PREACHED BY THAT FAITHFVLL srunt o Go, Mistr ROBERT ROLLOK, somtim Rtor o th Vniursiti o Enurgh.
COLOS. 3. 16, 17.16 Lt th wor o Christ wll in you plntously in ll wis∣om, thing n monishing your own slus, in pslms n hymns, n spiritull songs, singing with  gr in your hrts to th Lor.
17 An whtsour y shll o, in wor or , o ll in th Nm o th Lor Isus, giuing thnks to Go un th Fthr y him.
AT LONDON Imprint y Flix Kyngston, wlling in Ptr-nostr row, our ginst th sign o th Chkr. 1603.
TO THE RIGHT WORSHIPFVLL AND MY VERY CHRISTIAN FRIEND, Mistr Willim Sot o Ely, ll goonss in this li, n in th li to om ur∣lsting hppinss.SIr, in mny things Go hth n pls to link vs tog∣thr, s in ntur, in ntion, n in honst miliriti or Christin quintn, n sunri suh lik: yt in non o ths, hth this grt gr o his, mor plinly n pln∣tiully ppr, thn in th n o th holy Rli∣gion whih w pross. As th thing it sl hth n, is, n I trust shll or ur , th grtst glo∣ri n st omort, tht Go hth oor vs in this worl: so w nnot ut mk muh o th mns, n think wll o th mn, y whih this n mny othr grs, hu n or vnto vs, 〈◊〉•t in vs.
〈◊〉 mns r th Wor, Srmnts, n Pryrs o th Churh, togthr with mny othr

goo hlps n is, oth pulik n priut whih r goo, not only us thy pro rom Go, From whom lon lowth ury goo n prt git, n is ll only goons himsl: ut lso ∣us thy tn, to our spiritull nit in gnrll, n in spill r, th stritst n, to ty vs tog∣thr on with nothr, n to hol vs st in th ls∣s llowship o th sints. Th mn r G••• ithull srunts, louring in th ministri o Gos holy wor n otrin mongst vs. Who howsour thy  o thmslus inirm n wk, n hu Gos lss trsurs ut in rthn vssls, n thror mny tims un in oth ths rspts, not only spis, ut ill intrt in this uill worl, yt r thy m vnto •s n th rst tht lu, th suor o li vnto li, 〈◊〉 Christ.
Amongst othrs, whom Go in this lst g hth vouhs vnto vs, who my w? or who moul w mor ontinully rmmr, or mor rurnt∣ly rgr, thn tht worthi Country mn o ours, Mistr ROBERT ROLLOK, who, wht h ws in himsl (I mn or his li n onurs∣tion) I suppos vrili, you o ny mn liuing st know, n n n will most truly rlt, s tim n osion shll  or, us you wr not only th longst, ut most inwrly quint with ll his rigs. An wht h ws, n hth n to th Churh, his worthy works lt •••in him, sis his ily lours in th Pulpit n Shools, n mor thn suiintli tstii▪ Wht to mn in th worl, is mnist y mny things.

But not y ny mor thn this, tht hithrto nui it sl, hth not opn hr mouth, nithr ur shll  l so to o, his onurstion ws so Chri∣stin, n his iugmnt so sinr. This worthi in∣strumnt o his glori; Go griousli or, ny lirlly lnt  long whil to our Churh: ut w 〈◊〉 so rurntli stming him, s w shoul, nor •••rulli proiting y him, s in  w ought, Go in grt mri towrs him outls, though in no smll iugmnt to vs wr, hth n pls to rtrit him to himsl, out o this wrth w