The anarchy of a limited or mixed monarchy. Or, A succinct examination of the fundamentals of monarchy, both in this and other kingdoms, as well about the right of power in kings, as of the originall or naturall liberty of the people. A question never yet disputed, though most necessary in these times.


THE ANARCHY OF A LIMITED OR MIXED MONARCHY.
OR, A succinct Examination of the Fundamentals of Monarchy, both in this and other Kingdoms, as well about the Right of Power in Kings, as of the Originall or Naturall Liberty of the People.
A Question never yet disputed, though most necessary in these Times.
LUCAN. Lib. 3.
LIBERTAS (—) Populi quem Regna cohercent Libertate Perit:—
—Ne{que} enim libertas gratior ulla est Quam Domino servire bono—
CLAUDIAN.
Printed in the Year, 1648.
 [illustration]  [blazon or coat of arms] HONI ••IT QVI MAL Y PENSEThe Preface.WE do but flatter our selves, if we hope ever to be governed without an Arbitrary power. No: we mistake, the question is not, whe∣thher there shall be an Arbitrary power; but the only point is, who shall have that Arbi∣trary power, whether one man or many: there never was, nor never can be any people governed without a power of making Laws, and every power of making Laws must be Ar∣bitrary: for to make a Law according to Law, is contradi∣ctio in adjecto: It is generally confessed that in a Demo∣cratie, the Supream or Arbritrary power of making Laws is in a multitude; and so in an Aristocracy the like Legislative or Arbitrary power is in a few, or in the Nobility. And therefore by a necessary consequence in a Monarchy the same Legislative power must be in one; according to the rule of Aristotle, who saith, Government is in One, or in a Few, or in Many.
This antient Doctrine of Government, in these latter daies hath been strangly refined by the Romanists, and won∣derfully improved since the reformation especially in point of Monarchy, by an opinion that the people have original∣ly a power to create severall sorts of Monarchy, to limit and compound them with other formes of Government, at their pleasure.
As for this naturall power of the people, they find neither Scripture, reason, or practice to justifie it: for though seve∣rall Kingdomes have severall and distinct Laws one from an other: yet that doth not make severall sorts of Monar∣chy: Nor doth the difference of obtaining the Supreame power, whether by Conquest, election, succession, or by any other way make different sorts of Government. It is the difference onely of the Authors of the Laws, and not of the Laws themselves that alters the forme of government, that is, whether one man, or more then one make the Laws.
Since the growth of this new doctrine of the Limitation and Mixture of Monarchy, it is most apparent that Mo∣narchy hath bin crucified (as it were) between two Theeves, the Pope and the People; for what principles the Papists make use of for the power of the Pope above Kings; the very same by blotting out the word Pope, and putting i