At a General Court held at Boston the 16th. of March 1680,1. The solemn consideration of those awful threatnings that are in the face of divine Providence ... This court doth therefore appoint the 21st. day of April next to be observed as a day of fasting and prayer ...


At a GENERAL COURT Held at Boston the 16th of March 1680./1. THE solemn Consideration of those awful threatnings that are in the face of divine Providence, both toward the world in general, in respect of that fearful Sight and Sign from Heaven, which hath of late been taken notice of; and towards our selves more particularly, for that the Lord hath this last year manifested his holy displea|sure against us, having by an unusual Flood, by the Blast, and by worms, which his own own hand (who is able by the most contemptible of his creatures to stain our glory) hath sent among us, diminished the fruits of the earth. Having also dilivered some of our New-England Vessels with those in them, into the hands of such as are enemies to the Christian Name, and more lately frowned upon 〈◊〉 Shipwracks, and considerable losses at Sea; and visited some amongst us by sudden and unexpected Deaths. Being also sensible, that there are in other respects, dark clouds impending over us. And that the present state of the Protestant interest abroad, and more especially in the land of our Fathers Sepulchres, doth call for earnest Prayer before that God unto whom salvation belongeth. The Consideration of all these things calling aloud upon us for more then ordinary seekings of the Face of God in Jesus Christ:
This Court doth therefore appoint the 21st. day of April next to be observed as a Day of Fasting and Prayer, hereby prohibiting all servile labour upon that day, and ex|horting all the Ministers, Churches and People throughout this Colony, religiously to observe the same; and to intreat that the favour of God through Jesus Christ may be to|wards his People in other parts of the world. And that if it may stand with his good plea|sure, we may be hid in the day of the Lords anger, our publick Peace, Health, Libertyes stil continued. That Seed time and Harvest may not sail. And that a good success may be to the endeavours of this Court, and particularly for our worthy Agents in their nego|tiation. And to pray unto him, that he would order a perfect Lot for us, with respect unto those that are in the approaching Election, to be chosen as Rulers over this his People.
By the COURT,Edward Rawson Secr'.