Two ordinances of the Lords and Commons assembled in Parliament, one for the raising six thousand pounds for payment of the foure hundred souldiers, added to the forces already in the Tower of London, the other for the continuance of the committee of the army, and treasurers at wars. Die Lunæ, 24 April. 1648. Ordered by the Lords assembled in Parliament, that these two ordinances be forthwith printed and published. Ioh. Brown Cler. Parliamentorum.



TWO ORDINANCES OF THE LORDS and COMMONS Assembled in PARLIAMENT, One For the raising six thousand pounds for payment of the foure hundred Soul∣diers, added to the Forces already in the Tower of London, The other For the continuance of the Committee of the Army, and Treasurers at Wars.
Die Lunae, 24 April. 1648.ORdered by the Lords Assembled in Parliament, That these two Ordinances be forthwith printed and pub∣lished.
Ioh. Brown Cler. Parliamentorum.Imprinted at London for John Wright at the Kings Head in the old Bayley. 1648.







Die Lunae 24. April. 1648.An Ordinance for raising six thousand pounds for the foure hundred Souldiers added to the Forces already in the Tower of London.WHereas both Houses of Parliament have thought fit and appointed that foure hundred Souldiers, with their Officers, should be added to the For∣ces already in the Tower of London, for the safe guarding of the City of London from In∣surrections and Tumults, which being over and above the established Army, no provision is made for their payment, and for the providing of Bedding, and other necessary Accommodations for the use of the Souldiery appointed for the service there; It is therefore Ordained by the Lords and Commons in Parliament assembled, that all such sum and sums of money as shall be received by, and come into the
 hands of the Committees of Sequestration in the City of London and Liberties thereof, City of West∣minster, and other parts within the late Line of Com∣munication, and of the County of Essex, or by their respective Treasurers or Receivers, not ex∣ceeding the sum of six thousand pounds, shall be, and are hereby appointed immediately after the Receipt thereof to be paid to the Committee of Lords and Commons for advance of Money, usually fitting at Haberdashers Hall, or to their Treasurer for the time being, by the Receivors and Collectors there∣of, together with all such sum, and sums of money, as do remaine in the hands of any of the said Seque∣strators, Treasurers, or Collectors, or which they are chargeable with, or accomptable for to the State, which said six thousand pounds is hereby Ordered, to be disposed and paid by the said Committee, to Colonell Tichborne Leiutenant of the Tower of Lon∣don, for the payment of the said Forces, and the said Committee of Lords and Commons aforesaid, are hereby authorized and appointed, to call all and every the Committees, Sequestrators, Treasurers, Collectors, and others imployed in the Businesse of Sequestration in the places aforesaid, to accompt, and to requir