Religion and reason mutually corresponding and assisting each other first essay : a reply to the vindicative answer lately publisht against a letter, in which the sence of a bull and council concerning the duration of purgatory was discust / by Thomas White, Gent.


RELIGION
AND
REASON
Mutually corresponding and as∣sisting
each other. FIRST ESSAY. A Reply to the vindicative Answer
lately publisht against a Letter, in
which the sence of a Bull and Council
concerning the duration of Purgatory,
was discust. By Thomas White Gent.
Vinc. Lir. cap. 27.Intelligatur te exponente illustriùs, quod anteà obscuriùs
credebatur. Per te Posteritas intellectum gratuletur, quod
ante Vetustas non intellectum venerabatur. Eadem ta∣men
quae didicisti ita doce, ut cum dicas novè, non dicas
nova.PARIS MMLX.
THE
AUTHOR
TO THE JUDICIOUS
READER.I Suppose you have perus'd the Book I
here pretend to Answer; And, how do
you like it? has he done his work? I dare
not say, demonstrated, for sure he will
not offer at what he thinks impossible; but
has he prov'd, which is a modest word,
and he must not be offended at it? has he
solidly prov'd, That the position he su∣stains
is a Truth traditionarily deli∣ver'd
from the Apostles to us as a

point of Catholick Faith? Or, second∣ly,
That It is Defin'd either in the Bull
or Council? if he had done this, I should
heartily rejoyce in his Victory, though over
my self: But if, as to the first branch,
he have onely prov'd it the common per∣swasion
of later Ages; and that, without
clearing in what quality it is held, whe∣ther
as Faith or Opinion, even by the Mo∣derns:
If, instead of the Consent of Fa∣thers
he bring but One, above Exception,
and out of that One, the first and chief te∣stimony
is indifferent both to him and me,
and the onely difficulty of the rest objected
and answer'd by my self, and unreply'd to
by him: If, of the three passages he cites
out of the publick Liturgyes, one onely
bear any shew of difficulty; the other two
being either plainly neutral or grosly a∣bus'd:
And, if in the second branch, he
have onely prov'd that it was suppos'd,
or, as their Title-page warily calls it,
Contain'd in the Bull and Council, and
not Determin'd, I cannot see my case
so desperate as he imagins. Scripture it

self oftentimes proceeding upon Suppositi∣ons
conformable to the fore-entertain'd
apprehensions of those it speaks to, without
engaging that every such supposition is a
reveal'd Truth. But, on the other side, if
I have plentifully alledg'd both Scriptures
and Fathers, and Liturgyes, and Rea∣sons
too (of which me thinks a little does
well even among Divines) and to none of
these has he given the least satisfactory
answer; I cannot see but my case is
hopefull; and when you have read this
little Treatise, I cannot doubt but you
will see it so too.
But all this engages onely a particular
Controversy, the next is of a far more high
and universal importance, of a far diffe∣rent
strain from other single and ordinary
Questions. For in this,