The declaration votes, and order of assistance of both houses of Parliament, concerning the magazine at Hull, and Sir Iohn Hotham governour thereof.:  And His Majesties answer thereunto. With the statute of II H.7. cap. I. mentioned in the said answer. / Published together by His Majesties command..


THE DECLARATION, VOTES, and ORDER of Assistance of both Houses of PARLIAMENT, Concerning the Magazine at Hull, and Sir Iohn Hotham Governour thereof AND His Majesties Answer thereunto. With the Statute of 11 H. 7. cap. 1. mentioned in the said Answer.
Published together by His Majesties Command.
LONDON: Printed by ROBERT BARKER, Printer to the Kings most Excellent Majestie: And by the Assignes of JOHN BILL. MDCXLII.
The Declaration, Votes, and Order of Assistance of both Houses of Parliament, Concerning the Magazine at Hull, and Sir Iohn Hotham Governour thereof.THe Lords and Commons in Parliament, find∣ing just cause to fear, not onely the despe∣rate designes of Papists, and others of the maglignant partie at home, but also the ma∣lice of Enemies, incited by them from abroad, Thought it necessary for the safetie of this Kingdom, to secure the Town of Kingston upon Hull, being one of the most considerable places for strength, and affording the best conveniencie for Landing of Forreign Forces; And where a great part of the Magazine of the Kingdom for that time was placed; And for that end appointed Sir Iohn Hotham, one of the Members of the House of Commons, being a Gentleman of the same County, of a con∣siderable Fortune, and approved Integrity, to take upon him the government of that Town, and to draw thither some of the Trained Bands for the Guard thereof: In which apprehen∣sion and resolution thereupon taken, they are the more con∣firmed by the sight of some intercepted Letters of the Lord Digby, (a principall person of that partie) written to the Queen and Sir Lewis Dives, whereby that partie discovered an endeavour to perswade His Majestie to declare Himself, and retire into some place of safetie in this Kingdom, in opposition to wayes of Accommodation with His people, and to give the better opportunity to himself, and other dangerous persons to resort thither; which could have no other end but to in∣cline His Majestie to take Arms against His Parliament and
good Subjects, and miserably to imbroil this Kingdom in civill Wars.
About which time Captain Legg (a man formerly imployed in the practice of bringing up the Army against the Parliament) had direction by Warrant produced by him, under the Kings hand and signe Manuall, to enter Kingston upon Hull, and to draw thither such of the Trained Bands as he should think fit: And that the Earl of Newcastle came thither in a suspicious way, and under a f igned name, and did endeavour to possesse himself of the said Town, by vertue of the like Warrant and Authoritie.
They further conceiving, that the Magazine there being of so great importance to this Kingdom, would be more secure in the Tower of Londo