A fannatick's testimony against swearing; being an ansvver to four books, published by John Tombes, Jeremiah Ives, and Theophilus Brabourne; but more especially to that by Henry Den. By Henry Adis, a baptized believer, undergoing the name of a free-willer; and also most ignomineously by the tongue of infamy, called a fannatick, or a mad man.


A Fannatick's Testimony AGAINST SWEARING; Being An ANSVVER TO FOUR BOOKS, Published by John Tombes, Jeremiah Ives, and Theophilus Brabourne; But more especially to that by Henry Den.
By HENRY ADIS, a Baptized Believer, undergoing the Name of a Free-Willer; and also most ignomineously by the tongue of Infamy, called a Fannatick, or a mad man.
Above all things, my Brethren, Swear not, Jam. 5.12.For because of Swearing the Land mourneth, Jer. 23.10.—But speak the Truth every man to his Neighbour— Ephes. 4.25.And lye not one to another, seeing ye have put off the old man with his deeds, Col. 3.9.And so speak ye, and so do, as those that shall be judged by the Law of Liberty, Jam. 2.12.LONDON, Printed by S. Dover, in Martins Le Grand, near Aldersgate. 1661.
A Fannaticks Testimony AGAINST SVVEARING.Henry Den,THou in the back-side of thy Title Page of thy Epistle, speakest something of the deplorable Condition of Thousands of honest, quiet, peaceable People, that have been driven by Troops into Prison-Holes, both in Cities and Countries (the which England never saw the like before) And all this occasioned by that late Fanta∣stical, Wicked, and Bloudy Insurrection, which occasioned the Ministers of Justice (though contrary to all Justice, Equity, and good Conscience) to Execute their Pleasures (not Justice) upon these Persons, the In∣nocency of whom (as thou sayest) hath appeared many wayes, as well by the Confession of the dying Offenders, as by their own Protestations; and the Confession of those men that would be glad to find occasion against them, but are not able; neither will they in any thing, save in the things pertaining to the Worship of their God: Yet, sayest thou, They are kept in Bonds as with a snare, which at this day, holds them in, and shuts the Prison Doors against them; in that they (as thou sayest) are taught, That it is not lawful upon any Occasion, or before any Person to take an Oath; insomuch that when the Oath of Allegiance to the KING is tendered to many who are at Liberty, they rather chuse Imprisonment, than to take an Oath; and many who are in Prison, and have Liberty proffered upon Condition of taking the Oath, do rather chuse to con•inue there, than purchase their Libertiy with swearing.
And that all may prevent the impendent evil Consequences necessarily following: Thou sayest in Page 3. That thou wilt prove the lawfulness of an Oath in a serious and weighty Matter, which cannot otherwise be de∣termined.
And in the next place (thou sayest) thou wilt Answer those Ob∣jections, which are the Pillars that uphold the negative part.
In all which, that thou hast hitherto said, I cannot but