Novum lumen chirurgicum vindicatum, or, The new light of chirurgery vindicated from the many unjust aspersions of some unknown calumniators : with the addition of some few experiments made this winter in England / by Jo. Colbatch ...


Novum Lumen Chirurgicum Vindicatum: OR, THE NEW LIGHT OF CHIRURGERY VINDICATED
From the many unjust Aspersions of some unknown Calumniators.
With the Addition of some few Experiments made this Winter in England.
By Jo. Colbatch, Physitian.
LONDON: Printed for D. Brown, at the Bible and Swan without Temple-Bar. 1695.
BOOKS Sold by Daniel Brown, at the Bible and Swan without Temple-Bar.NOvae Hypotheseos ad expli∣canda Febrium intermittenti∣um symptomata & typos excogita∣tae Hypotyposis. Una cum Aetio∣logio Remediorum; speciatim vero de Curatione per Corticem peruvia∣num. Accessit dissertatiuncula de in∣testinorum motu Peristaltico, a Gui∣lielmo Cole. M. D.
A Physico-Medical Essay; concern∣cerning the late frequency of Apo∣plexies, with a general Method of their Prevention and Cure, in a Let∣ter to a Physitian, by W. Cole, M. D.
Epistolae Medicinales variis Oc∣casionibus conscriptae. Autore Ri∣chardo Carr, M.D. & Col. Reg. Med. Lond. Socio.
〈1 page duplicate〉TO THE HONOURABLE William Blathwayt, Esq Secretary of War.SIR,MY Adversaries ha∣ving Dedicated a Piece to You, where∣in

they desire Your Pa∣tronage of Truth, which they pretend to be on their Sides; I also being sufficiently satisfied, that the greatness of Your Soul is such, as not to be amused with Specious Pretensions; have presu∣med, also, to Dedicate this Piece to You; which

altho I have not had time to put into any order, yet it contains most indispu∣table Truths.
I beg not any other Favour of You, than if Truth inclines to my side, that You will afford me Your Patronage, which my own Experience is sufficient to assure me,

that my Request will be as readily granted as de∣sired. I am,
SIR, Your most Obliged and Obedient Servant to Command, JO. COLBATCH.TO THE READER.ON the 18th day of this Instant April, there came to my Hands a little Libel set forth by my old Friends the Surgeons. At first I thought it would not be worth my spending any time in Writing an Answer to it; Till at last I concluded, That if I should be altogether Silent till the end of the Campaign, they might in my Absence triumph

amongst themselves, and make the Ʋnthinking Part of the World believe, that I had given up my Cause, and yielded all for lost. To prevent which, I have (in the midst of my Multiplicity of Business) spent a few Hours in composing the following little Tract. The which I must own to be full of many Imperfecti∣ons, yet contains nothing but truth; and therefore for Truths sake, I doubt not but the Can∣did Reader will pass over those other Failings that he may meet with.
The Charges laid against me are very numerous; and were they but as true, I must

of consequence be the most vile Creature alive. But I having been used so much to the Scurrility of some of that Fratern