The crisis. Number XXIII.









CRISIS. NUMBER XXIII.
To his Tyrannic Majesty—the DEVIL.Most infernal Sir,DO not affect the utmost astonishment at this address; it comes not in the tremendous form of a Petition; of these your sulky Majesty shall have no more during the short time you can hope to tyrannize over us in a regal shape. What I humbly offer now, concerns, not your infested and afflicted kingdoms, so nearly as your dear self and favourites. Your Majesty's best beloved spirits, Bute and Mansfield, the whole astonished world consider as the blackest imps in all your train; and yourself, as their humble execu∣tioner. They advise, and you most condescendingly administer, Destruction. Their ascendancy and your humility, their patriotism and your discernment, their wisdom and your humanity, are subjects of universal admiration. But of all your most diabolical virtues, satanic Sir, the most conspicuous is Hypo∣crisy. The blaze of it, upon one occasion, in par∣ticular, the death of Lord Chancellor Yorke, (as Milton says) "far round illumin'd hell." As you can practice it so successively for the desolation, let me intreat you, gloomy Sir, to assume it now (by way of frolic only) for the preservation of mankind; but, above all, for your own precious interest, much
dearer to you than the salvation of an inferior uni∣verse. Your Majesty has disported yourself amidst the dangerous indulgencies of three most unprincely passions; pride, anger, and revenge, for fourteen years past; ever since the demise of our good King, George the second; in whose reign your most hy∣pocritical highness was advised to wear the mask of decency and circumspection. You then cast a fa∣vourable glance only at corruption; but you have since spurned the reign of policy, and broke out into such uncommon tyrannies, such bloody inhumani∣ties, unprovoked, that your despotic Highness must now either desist, or expect to be deserted and de∣posed. My great tenderness for two of your High∣nesses dearest friends, the Scotch Lords, Bute and Mansfield, obliges me to give you this timely notice Should you still continue, dread Sir, to "have en∣tire confidence in the wisdom of your Divan," should you still, "Steadily pursue those measures which they have recommended"—your reign can be but short; your animating supporters Bute, and Mansfield, must surely fail. When these hellish in∣stigators of your pride are gone, your unhappy reign must end, when those arch fiends of corrup∣tion and iniquity, are no more; your wise Divan, will fall off from you like water, they will neither support your wanton slaughter in America, nor your pious designs upon Great Britain, your faithful pen∣sioners will faint for want of those heartening sup∣plies, with which they are now daily refreshed in plenteous streams, by your Majesty's feeder Lord North, under the provident eye of your best sub∣jects, Bute and Mansfield. When these fountains of milk and honey, cease to flow, your Majesty's hired majority will