A sermon preach'd before the King at White-hall on Tuesday, November the 5th, 1700 by William Fleetwood ...


A SERMON Preach'd before the KING AT WHITE-HALL, ON Tuesday, November the 5th. 1700.
By William Fleetwood, Chaplain in Ordinary to His MAJESTY.
Publish'd by His Majesties Special Command.
LONDON: Printed for CHARLES HARPER, at the Flower-de-Luce overagainst S. Dunstan's Church, in Fleet-street. 1700.
A SERMON Preach'd before the KING, &c.St. Matthew, Chap. xxiii. Vers. 15.Wo unto you Scribes and Pharisees, Hypocrites; for ye compass Sea and Land, to make One Prose∣lyte; and when he is made, ye make him two∣fold more the Child of Hell than yourselves.
OUR Saviour being sent of God, to reform the World in general, and in particular the great Corruptions that had over-spread the Jews his own People, both in their Practice and Opinion; found the greatest Opposition to his good Design, from the Scribes and Pharisees, who being in great Reputation with the common People, for
 their most scrupulous precise observance of all the Traditions of the Elders, and a seeming Austerity of Life and Manners, led them wherever they pleased, and prejudiced them exceedingly against his Doctrine, and his Person. He therefore sets himself to undeceive these People, and let them know, what false and wicked Men these their Guides and Directors were, and how unworthy of their Admiration and Esteem: that they were not in the least, the Men they would ap∣pear to be; but endeavoured, in all their Acti∣ons, to make a fine shew of Zeal and Holiness, without any Truth or Substance at the bottom; and cover'd very bad Designs under these Masques, and fair pretences. Upon this account it is, that in all his denunciations of Wo and Wrath, to the Scribes and Pharisees; he also adds, that they were Hypocrites. He says, They bound heavy burthens, and grievous to be born, on other peoples shoulders, but would not themselves move them with one of their fingers; laid heavy Penances on Others that of∣fended, and told them a world of things were absolutely necessary, but liv'd themselves at ease, free from that discipline: that all they did, was to be seen of Men, and to receive their Praise and Honour, living wholly to the World, and its Ap∣plause and Interest, without any good Design, in any thing they undertook. Amongst other
 Reproofs, this of the Text is One; that the very Zeal which they shew'd in converting Gentiles to the Jewish Faith, was at the bottom stark naught, and tended only to the greater Mischief of those poor People who were converted by them. Wo unto you Scribes and Pharisees, Hypo∣crites; for ye compass Sea and Land, to gain One Proselyte, and when he is made, ye make him two∣fold more the Child of Hell, than yourselves.
Which words we will, First, Consider in them∣selves. Secondly, See, what Use we may make of them: And Lastly, Make what Application may be proper to this present Occasion.
I. Of the words in themselves. To make a Proselyte, is to gain One over