The mourner comforted an epistle consolatory / written by Hugo Grotius to Monsieur Du Maurier the French embassadour at the Hague ; translated on a sad occasion by C.B.


THE MOURNER COMFORTED. AN Epistle Consolatory; WRITTEN BY HƲGO GROTIƲS TO Monsieur DU MAURIER the French Embassadour at the HAGUE. Translated on a sad occasion, by C.B.
Melius se fert sparsus Dolor.LONDON, Printed by A.M. for Edward Lee at the Turks Head in Fleetstreet. 1652.
TO THE READER.Reader,THis had not seen the light, but that it may be usefull to some of the Relatives of that excellent Lady, that could not go to her grave unobser∣ved, nor without great attendance. Her departure may be compared to the disappearing of some star of the first magnitude. Or rather, a new star is thereby added to the heavens. And there let her shine for ever. The use of this Epistolical Discourse may also extend farther then my

first design. They that faint under any such losse may take it for a cor∣dial: and they that fear any, may receive it for a preparative. This (upon some experience in himself) is the hope of the Translator in the publication of it; and it is Dedica∣ted to those Honourable persons, whom he will not presume to name, untill by some more ample testimony he may publickly shew himself their faithful and humble servant,
C.B.HUGO GROTIUS His Consolatory Epistle to the French Embassador DƲ MAƲRIER, upon the Death of his Lady.Most, Illustrious Lord,I Am thus far indebted to my prison, that the evils of other men come later to my knowledge; even your wound, which o∣therwise I should have known among the first, by reason of that friendship wherewith you have honou∣red me, I now understand last of all, like unto those things that come to pass in the remotest parts of Europe. This will excuse the slownesse of my duty, which yet beside necessity hath reason enough to defend it. For those conso∣lations are wont to be more accepta∣ble, which are then applied, when the

first storm of sorrow is past, and that pleasure (if I may so speak) of grieving is abated; when the minde now wearied with its disease begins to be willing to admit of remedies, and to suffer the touch of some helping hand. I know how you were affected with my calamity, and thence you may understand, I am not unsensible of your sorrow. Let us, if it please you, mingle together the cau∣ses of our grief, that we may together seek for comforts, and when we have found them make use of them together. Neither am I ignorant, how little I, that am so destitute of all aids both to my minde and body, am able to bring unto this purpose, which is not already better and more effectually alledged and ex∣pressed by the professors of wisdom or eloquence or piety, who have hereto∣fore set up their standard against immo∣derate mourning. But I am taught by my own experience, That can never be too much repeated which is never e∣nough remembred. We must scour and call back into use the Arms, which by length of time are grown rusty. Besides,