A treatise of the iudge of controuersies. Written in Latin, by the R. Father Martinus Becanus of the Society of Iesus, Professour in Diuinity. And Englished by W.W. Gent


A TREATISE OF THE IVDGE OF CONTROVERSIES.
WRITTEN In Latin, by the R. Father Martinus Becanus of the Society of Iesus, Professour in Diuinity.
AND Englished by W. W. Gent.
 [illustration]  [printer's device (?) containing Jesuit emblem (IHS with a cross resting on the crossbar of the H; three nails below)] IHS
Permissu Superiorum. M. DC. XIX.
THE PRINTER TO THE READER.GENTLE Reader, hauing perused this short Treatise, trāsla∣ted into English, and sent vnto me by a friend; I was straight moued with earnest desire to set the same forth in Print, hoping that many wold reape great benefit by reading it, & come to be resolued in the may nest of the Controuersyes that now disturbe the Christiā
 world: yea such a Cōtrouersy, as the knowledge therof is the beginning of al Truth, & con∣trarywise Errour therein the fountaine of all Contentions. For if both sides, Protestants as well as Catholikes, would ad∣mit some visible Iudge, liuing on earth, endued with full au∣thority to decide their contro∣uersyes, about the sense of holy scripture, by sentence infallible & not obnoxious vnto deceit, Contentions might be soone ended, and an vniuersall peace throughout Christendome, for in matters of Religion, establi∣shed.
Now the contrary currant
 perswasion, That Scripturs are cleare and perspicuous in all points of Controuersy, and their true sense apparent & ob∣uious to euery simple man, that shall attentiuely peruse the Text; hath opened a wide gap for all Heresyes to enter into Christendome, rending in pee∣ees the Peace & Vnity therof, and depriuing the same of all meanes by which Cōtentions may be brought to some finall end. For men being once per∣swaded, that they see the Truth in all points of Religion con∣trouerted, no lesie cleerly shi∣ning in the Holy Scriptures, then the Sunne doth at noone
 day; they must needs condem∣ne, as erring, & wanting the light of Gods spirit, all others that shal vnderstand the Scrip∣tures otherwise then they do. And this so peremptorily, as they will contemne the senten∣ce of any Pastour or Pastours, that shal sit in iudgment vpon the Cōtrouersy.
This presumption of light to vnderstād the Scriptures a∣boue their Elders, so much proclaymed in Protestāts pul∣pits, makes our Aduersaryes disagree implacably, and with∣out hope of reconcilement, not only frō vs, but also betweene themselues: Yea (as a Protestāt
 of great name, well acquainted with the proceedings of their Churches, complaines) this conceit hath made thousands so headstrong, euen in grosse & palpable errors; that a man, whose capacity will scarse serue him to vtter fiue words in sen∣sible manner, blusheth not, in any doubt concerning matter of Scripture, to thinke his own bare Yea, as good as the Nay of all the wise, graue, and learned iudgmēts that are in the whol world: which Insolency