Some errors of the Quakers detected viz. their denial of Christ, his sacrifice, ordinances, the Resurrection of the Body, and Christ's second coming : to which is added proof tha the light in all men is not Christ : with an answer to a Quaker's praise of William Penn / by Francis Estwick ...


•ome Errors OF THE •UAKERS Detected, Viz.
•hei• Denial of Christ, his Sacrifice, ••••ances, the Resurrection of the Body, and Christ's Second Coming.
To which is added Proof, •hat the Light in all Men is not Christ.
With an ANSWER to Quaker's Praise of William Penn.
•rancis Estwick (a Preacher of Glad 〈◊〉 to all Men,) at Fowlkston in Kent.
〈◊〉 shall be with Child, and shall bring forth a Son, 〈◊〉•ll his Name Emmanuel, - God with us,
Isa. 7.14. 〈◊〉 21, 22, 23.
〈◊〉 appeared to put away Sin, by the Sacrifice of him∣••••〈◊〉•9.26.
〈◊〉 will eat as doth a Canker, of whom is Hymeneus ••••tus, who, concerning the Truth have Erred, sa•ing, 〈◊〉 Resurrection is past already, and overthrow the Faith 〈◊〉2 Tim. 2.16, 17, 18.
〈◊〉••to him,— Hereafter shall ye see the Son •f Man 〈…〉 right hand of Power, and coming in the Clouds of 〈◊〉Mat. 26.64.
〈◊〉 for the Author, and are to be Sold at •everal places in London, 1697.
THE Preface to the Reader.Courteous Reader,WHat have I now done, is there not a Cause, 1 Sam. 17.29. Therefore the oc∣casion of this my setting Pen to Paper, I can truly say, did not arise from me, but from them∣selves; for as to their Doctrine, I have often op∣posed by Word of Mouth & as to the Paper concern∣ing William Penn's high Commendation, it was sent to me, by them, to see, Whether I could object against it; the which I perused, and let it pass: and a se∣cond time it was brought to me by another of their Friends, but I let it pass again: but being brought the third time, I then thought it needful to write a Reply to it, lest by my Silence, they might esteem of it above what was meet; yet I acknowledg these People, are (many of them) very good and just in their Morals, and do as they would be done by, and are zealous in their Way, and orderly in the outward Conversation, and are very helpful to each other, in the management of their Affairs in this Life; and I have often told them, that were their Principles grounded on, and agreeing to the Principles of the Doctrine of Christ, I would readily close with them; But instead of the Merit, Satisfactory Active and Passive Obedience of Jesus of Nazareth, the Resurrection of the Body, and Christs second Com∣ing, they go on in their Way, disswading People from closing in with Christ, and his Ordinances, and exhorting others to turn from them, who have yield∣ed Obedience thereunto; pretending that they are extinguished and abolished, which were ap∣pointed, and set up by the Lord of Life and Glory, to
 distinguish his People from the World, and to shew forth his Death till he come; and he hath promised his Spiritual Presence to bewith such to the end of the World; but the Quakers acting thus contrarily, to the gri