Musarum deliciae. Contayning more then a select century of royall Latine anagrams, besides diverse written in English, upon the sacred name and titles of our dread soveraigne and of his dearest consort, and their most princely progeny. Together with apposite anagrams upon all the English monarchs that have lived and died since the union of the royall roses and houses of Yorke and Lancaster. Some few of those extracted from his Maiesties imperiall name, have been heretofore presented to his royall hands with gracious acceptance. The Latine anagrammes are expressed in English verses in the opposite columne. Perused anew, and now published altogether, (with the authors assent) by Arthur Pyne Esquire, to whom the anagrams made in honour of the Prince his Highnesse were in speciall manner directed.


MVSARVM DELICIAE.
CONTAYNING MORE then  select Century of royll Ltine Angrms, esides diverse written in English, upon the scred nme nd titles of our Dred Soverigne nd of his derest Consort, nd their most Princely Progeny.
Together with pposite Angrms upon ll the English Monrchs tht hve lived nd died since the union of the royll roses nd houses of Yorke nd Lncster.
Some few of those extrcted from his Miesties Imperill Nme, hve een heretofore presented to his Royll hnds with grcious cceptnce.
The Ltine Angrmmes re expressed in English verses in the opposite Columne.
Perused new, nd now pulished ltogether, (with the Authors ssent) y Arthur Pyne Esquire, to whom the Angrms mde in honour of the Prince his Highnesse were in specill mnner directed.
Cicero.Non contentio nimi, sed relxtio.
❧ London printed y Anne Griffin. 1635.
PRAEFATIO POETICA.
Ad Crolum Regem Augustum.

Crole qui triplicis fulges didemte Regni,
Ter populo dilecte, Deo dilecte ter-uni;
( Semper honos nomen{que} tuum ludes{que} mneunt;)
Script tum ccipis in ludem, nomen, honorem.

Gret Chrles with three rich didems high-crowned,
Thrice lov'd of men, the Trinities delight;
For your grethonour, nme, nd prise renowned:
In prise of your most honour'd nme I write.
To the Queenes Miesty.Gret Queene, gret Britines other greter light;
My Muse (lthough lest worthy) here rings forth
Choice Angrms (in which French wits delight)
To testifie her service, nd your worth.
Ad Crolum Principem infntem.
Heredum flos summe, heres dignissime florum,
Gllic quos tellus, quos{que} Britnn tulit;
Ecce tii, Princeps, Musrum flosculus horti
Ad Tmisim à Tmre mrgine missus dest.

Youflow'r of Princes whom French lillyes shield,
And the fire roses of these British Relmes;
Accept some flow'rs of the Pierin field,
FromTmr rought to Thmes the Prince of Stremes.
To the Duke of Yorke.Imes now is wht Chrles ws in th'unions Spring,
Yorkes duke descended from the royll rce:
Chrles is wht Imes then ws, the Soverigne King
Of ll this Islnd, through Gods Soverigne Grce.
Sith th'hev'ns re ples'd thus to trnspose gret nmes;
Deigne your cceptnce to these Angrms.
To the Ldy Mry.Most princely Ldy, some poeticke Lyes,
Presuming on your leve, I