A brief account of the epidemical fever which lately prevailed in the city of New York; with the different proclamations, reports and letters of Gov. Jay, Gov. Mifflin, the Health Committee of New York, &c. upon the subject. : To which is added, an accurate list of the names of those who have died of the disease, from July 29, to Nov. 1. / By M.L. Davis.


A BRIEF ACCOUNT OF THE EPIDEMICAL FEVER Which lately prevailed IN THE CITY OF NEW YORK; WITH THE Different Proclamations, Reports and Letters of gov. Jay, gov. Mifflin, The Health Committee of New York, &c. upon the Subject. TO WHICH IS ADDED, AN ACCURATE LIST OF THE NAMES OF THOSE WHO HAVE DIED OF THE DISEASE, FROM July 29, TO Nov. 1.
By M. L. DAVIS.
NEW YORK: Printed and Sold by MATTHEW L. DAVIS, No. 151 Water street. 1795. (Copy Right Secured.)
TO THE PUBLICTHE following sheets are submitted, in their rude state, to the candour of the Public. Various imper|fections will, doubtless, be found in them; but, it is hoped, they will not be reviewed with a critical eye. The early period at which they are published may be plead in their defence, if the arrangement is con|demned. The Editor is anxious to publish a more correct and extensive account of the disease, and, for that purpose, respectfully solicits any information that his fellow Citizens can afford him.
He is, with due Respect, The Public's very Obedient Servant, M. L. D.New-York,Nov. 1.A BRIEF ACCOUNT OF THE EPIDEMICAL FEVER, &c.WHEN I first determined on publishing the pre|sent pamphlet, it was my intention to have presented the Public with a Work not inferior to the one pub|lished by that indefatigable man, and meritorious Au|thor, Mr. Mathew Carey, of Philadelphia▪ and to accomplish this desirable object, I applied to several medical friends to write a Dissertation upon the dis|ease, with a statement of such important facts as came within their knowledge, and promised to furnish them with all that I could obtain. In this pleasing anticipa|tion, however, I have been much disappointed, for each and all declined undertaking the business, for lo|cal reasons. I mention this circumstance as an apolo|gy for my coming forward, I trust, before an indulgent Public. The great satisfaction which many strangers may derive from perusing an accurate list of the deaths, and thereby discovering, in a degree, whether or not, their friends and connexions are still living, in|duced me to procure the statement which is annexed to the Work.
It is not my intention to hazard any opinion what|ever, upon the disease, whether imported or originat|ing in local causes; but simply to collect the several letters and other publications which have appeared on the subject, and which I conceive will be found any way interesting or satisfactory to the reader. The proceedings of the Health Committee, the different

letters, &c. are arranged agreeable to the dates on which they appeared.
Perhaps it may be considered a duty incumbent on me to say something concerning the si