The passion-flower a sermon preached on the 30th day of January, being the day of the martyrdom of King Charls the I. / by Christopher Flower ...



THE Passion-Flower: A SERMON Preached on the 30th day of January, BEING The Day of the MARTYRDOM OF King Charls the I.
〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉, Of whom the World was not worthy, Heb. 11. 38.By CHRISTOPHER FLOVVER, M. A. and Rector of St. Margarets Lothbury, LONDON.
London, Printed for Nathaniel Brook at the Angel in Cornhill. 1666.
 [illustration] Academiae Gantabrigiensis Liber.
To the truly Worthy His Honoured Friend Dr. BALDWIN HAMEY Doctor of Physick.SIR,OFten and seriously con∣sidering my manifold obligations, owing even my very life (next un∣der God) to your care and cure, as having not seldom pro∣long'd it, when twinkling on the socket; I determin'd rather to run the Gantlop of Censure from this capricious and over-curious age, than merit the sor∣did

Epithet of Ingrateful. And yet, if the gale of your Clemency drive mee cleer off that Scylla, I fear I shall split upon Charibdis, incurr the supicion, at lest, of pride and vain-glory, while I onely wish my Meditations immortal, whereby my thanks may run paralell with them. I must ingenuously acknowledg, this Discourse hath nothing to commend it to your accomplisht self, but the sincere loyalty of the Autor, and the weightiness of the Subject; compri∣sing some of the Unjust Sufferings of the Lord of Glory; in which, as in a mirrour, you may also view the Sufferings of our glorious Lord, King CHARLS the first of ever blessed memory; whose Anniversary merits (maugre all malice) a sable Monu∣ment

of solemn mourning to bear date with the utmost length of Time; that so the Enemies of his Regality. and Virtues may see the guilt and greatness of their Vices, and those of our Nation and Religion may discern our Reallity and Inno∣cence. Now would you deign to in∣quire what flegg'd this Discourse of mine to fly (tho with black wings) farther than your habitation, suffer mee to tell you (which I cannot with∣out a sigh) the supine negligence of som and the irreligion of others, which obstructs a religious ingress in∣to the sacred place of God's special Presence on the annual approach of this dismal day? So that, by an hap∣py Providence, this Sermon may reach som of their houses and pearch

on som of their hands, who make little, or no conscience of frequenting God's House on this solemn day. That I have made a good Choice in putting this weak child of my weaker brain, under your Patronage, none will or can deny; you having obtained one of the chiefest places among those 〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉, breathing Gods; who enrich dayly the world with wonders, in raising in∣firm mortals from sickness to health, & as it were from death it self. I may add, whose loyalty, learning, candor, integrity of life, and exemplary Cha∣rity, are as so many specifics against the Pestilential breath of detraction. If you shall vouchsafe (Noble Sir) to stick in the vernant Eden