A discharge of five imputations of mis-allegations, falsly charged upon the (now) Bishop of Duresme, by an English baron Shewing, that no solid or reall answer is to be expected, from the Romish party, to his late booke (against their Masse) so greatly maligned by them.


A
DISCHARGE
OF
Five Imputations
of MIS-ALLEGATIONS,
falsly charged upon the (now)
Bishop of DVRESME, by an
English Baron.
SHEWING,
That no solid or reall Answer is
to be expected, from the Romish
Party, to his late Booke (against their
Masse) so greatly maligned
by them.
LONDON,
Printed by M. F. for R. Milbourne
at the signe of the Greyhound in Pauls
Churchyard. 1633.
TO THE RIGHT
HONOVRABLE,
the Lord Ar: Baron.RIght Honourable,
(whom, for honour
sake, in an Epistle re∣prehensive,
I have not
named in full sylla∣bles)
I had no sooner
heard that your Lordship had exce∣pted
against my Booke, concerning the
Masse, but I laboured both by my im∣portunity
of letters unto you, and solli∣citation
of an Honourable friend, to
be acquainted therewith, having first

understood, that you had objected thē to
some Protestants, by way of Traduce∣ment;
and then imparted them to a fe∣male
tongue, which you knew to be as
shrill and loud as Bow-bell, to con∣vey
it into the eares of others round
about, in the vilest termes of Falsifi∣cator
and Impostor. A pestilent
ayre, which presently after was heard
blustering at the Court: Whereunto
I addressed my Answer, Satisfacto∣rie,
as I thought. And about five
weekes after I received a Replie from
your Lordship closely sealed up, with
divers seales, for secrefie sake: But,
behold a Miracle! the same Replie
flyeth out amain, the Seales (as it were
the Doores) being shut, which di∣spersed
abrod by the wings of Report,
preoccupateth the eares and mindes of
the most of your Profession, within the

County of Hampshire, to my great
ignominie and reproach. All which
your Obliquity of dealing I received
from the intelligence of Persons with∣out
all Exception: Whereby I learne
that your Ayme was not your owne
Satisfaction (then pretended) but my
defamation. So that your Lordship
may not now bee offended, to see your
owne private letters present them∣selves
againe unto you in publique
Print, and attended with this my Dis∣charge
and Answere unto them. For
you were not to thinke, that when as
you had placed the Candle upon the
top of the Table, I should hide it
under a bushell: but seeing that you
would not pinion your 〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉, that
is, flying words and voices, I have
also given this my Answere liberty, to
meet with them upon the same stage.

Your Lordships Exceptions are
partly against my Allegations, and
partly against my Style of writing;
and you will bee knowne to bee the sole
Author of both: but your Lordship
will con me thankes, if for your credit-sake
I attribute the Objections against
my Allegations rather to some Ro∣mish
Suggester than to your selfe;
when you shall perceive the manifold
falsities of the Objections, from point
to point. Nor w