Anno Domini M.DC.XXXIII [i.e. M.DC.XXIII] articles given in charge to be inquired upon and presented too, by the churchwardens, side-men, quest-men, and inquisitors in every parish within the province of Ardmagh [sic], in the course of the metropoliticall visitation of the same, in this present yeare begun, by the most reverend father in God, Christopher, by the mercie of God, Lo. Archbishop of Ardmagh, primate and metropolitane of all Ireland : the said presentments to be made upon their and every their corporall oathes, whereunto the parson, vicar, curate, and parish-clarke in every of the said parishes are to be assisting, so farre as they and every of them can, respectively in their knowledge or understanding.


ANNO DOMINI M. DCXXIII.¶ARTICLES given in charge to be inquired upon and presented too, by the Churchwar∣dens,
Side-men, Quest-men and Inquisitors in every parish within the Province of Ardmagh, in the course of the Metropoli∣ticall
visitation of the same, in this present yeare begun, by the most reverend Father in God, Christopher, by the mercie of
God, Lo: Archbishop of Ardmagh, Primate and Metropolitane of all Ireland. The said presentments to be made upon their
and every their corporall Oathes; whereunto the Parson, Vicar, Curate, and Parish-clarke in every of the said Parishes,
are to be assisting, so farre as they and every of them can, respectively in their knowledge or understanding.INprimis, whether is your Parson, Vicar or Curate resident con∣tinually
in, at, and upon his Benefice, doing his duetie in rea∣ding
distinctly the divine Service, preaching the word, and duly
administring the holy Sacraments, according to the booke of
Common Prayer?
2 Item, whether doth your Parson or Vicar (being lawfully
absent from his Cure at any time) leave in his place a sufficient and
conformable Curat, to celebrate divine Service, administer the Sa∣craments,
and teach and preach the Scriptures?
3 Item, whether is your Parson, Vicar, or Curate a common re∣sorter
to Tavernes or Alchouses, giving himselfe to drinking, ryo∣ting,
& playing at Cards, dyce, or other unlawfull games: or is he a
Striker, dueller, dancer or hunter; or so reported?
4 Item, whether is your Parson or Vicar, or anie other of or in
your parish, an Usurer, or lender of his money for unlawfull gaine,
or whether is he, or are they taken or reputed so to be?
5 Item, whether do the Proprietaries, Parsons, vicars & other
possessors of the Churches, Chappells and their mansions within
your parish, keep the chancels of their rectories & vicarages, & other
their houses & buildings belonging to the same, in due reparations?
6 Item, whether hath your Parson, Vicar or Curate received a∣nie
persons to the holy communion, being openly knowne to be at
debate and out of charitie with their neighbours, or defamed with
anie notorious crime and not reformed?
7 Item, whether hath your Parson, Vicar or Curate denied or
neglected to visite the sicke, or burie the dead, being brought to the
Chu