Terra australis incognita, or A new southerne discouerie, containing a fifth part of the vvorld. Lately found out by Ferdinand de Quir, a Spanish captaine. Neuer before published. Translated by W.B.


Terra Australis incognita, OR A new Southerne DISCOVERIE, CONTAINING A fifth part of the World. Lately found out By FERDINAND DE QVIR, a Spanish Captaine.
Neuer before published.
 [illustration] 
LONDON Printed for IOHN HODGETTS. 1617.
THE COPIE OF A Petition presented to the King of Spaine, by Captaine Peter Ferdinand de Quir, touching the discouery of the fift part of the World, called Terra Australis incognita: and of the great riches and fertilitie of the same.SIR,I Am called Captaine Fer∣dinand De Quir, a most humble seruant and sub∣iect of your Maiesties, who in all submission do shew vnto you, that this is the eighth Petition, which by mee hath beene presented to your Maiesties view, to perswade the conduction of some Colonies, vnto the land which your Maiestie hath commanded to be discouered in the Countrey of Terra Australis incognita. And yet to this houre no resolution is taken
in this affaire, neither haue I receiued any an∣swere or hope, whereby I might rest assured to obtaine my dispatch, although I haue at∣tended fourteene moneths in your Court, and haue imployed fourteene yeeres in this Discouery, vnto the which I haue beene in∣duced by the meere goodnesse of the cause, and in the assurednesse of the same haue ob∣durated my selfe against all difficulties and contradictions whatsoeuer. I haue despe∣rately exposed my selfe to a thousand perils both by sea and land, I haue diminished and suncke my estate, I haue beene trauailed with many afflictions in my person, and suffered such strange and extraordinary crosses, tha• they seeme almost incredible to my selfe 〈◊〉 and all, that so Religious an vndertake should not vnworthily be abandoned. In regard• whereof, I doe most humbly beseech your Maiestie in the bowels of the Diuine Chari∣tie, that you would be pleased to take order that I be not depriued of the fruits of this de∣signe, which with such instance I doe desire and which with so much iustice are due vn∣to my continuall paines and trauaile: nor that
I be debarred from the effects of so conside∣rable and well-grounded a request, whose ••incipall scope is the glorie of God, and of ••our Maiestie, and from whence infinite be∣nefits are likely to issue forth, which will liue ••long as the fabricke of the world shall sub∣sist, and after the dissolution thereof will re∣••aine to all Eternitie.
Touching the extent of these Regions ••wly discouered, grounding my iudgment 〈◊〉 that which I haue seene with mine owne ••es, and vpon that which Captaine Lewes ••ez de Torres Admirall of my Fleet hath re∣presented vnto your Maiestie, The length ••er of is as great as all Europe & Asia the lesse, ••to the Sea of Bachu, Persia, and all the Iles, ••ell of the Ocean, as of the Mediterranean〈◊〉, taking England & Island into this account. 〈◊〉 This vnknow