A summarie ansvvere to al the material points in any of Master Darel his bookes More especiallie to that one booke of his, intituled, the Doctrine of the possession and dispossession of demoniaks out of the word of God. By Iohn Deacon. Iohn Walker. Preachers.


A SVMMARIE ANSWERE TO AL THE MATERIAL POINTS IN ANY OF Master DAREL his bookes.
MORE ESPECIALLIE TO THAT ONE BOOKE OF HIS, INTITVLED, the Doctrine of the Possession and Dispos∣session of Demoniaks out of the word of God.
ByIOHN DEACON. IOHN WALKER.Preachers.
And the Sorcerers or Charmers of Aegypt: they did in like manner with their in∣chauntments. For they cast downe euery man his rod, and they were turned in∣to Serpents: but Aarons rod deuoured their rods, and so Pharaohs heart was hardened.
Exdo. 7.11.12.13.Si de veritate scandalum sumitur: vtilius permittitur nasci scandalum, quàm veritas relinquatur.
 Aug. de libro arbitrio.Talis est conditio falsitatis vel erroris, vt etiam nullo sibi adsistente consenescat: talis autem è diuerso, veritatis status, vt etiam multis impugnantibus, suscitetur & crescat.
Chrys. de laudibus Pauli. lib. 3.Eugubinus de perenni Philosoph. lib. 3.
〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉.
Heu Tripodes lugete, perit praesagus Apollo.
Aye me alas Tripodes, perisheth presager Apollo.
Propugnaculum vitae patientia.
LONDINI Impensis Geor. Bishop. 1601.
TO THE REVEREND FATHERS, THE LEARNED PREACHERS AND GODLIE BRE∣thren in this our English Church: I. D. and I. W. doe hartily wish the abundance of Reuelation in Iesus Christ, with an holy discerning spirit; that they may be the better inabled thereby, to discerne aright of the things that differ, and to hold fast for euer the infallible truth, for the glorie of God▪ the Churches good, and their owne euerla∣sting comfort in Iesus Christ. So be it.REuerend Fathers and Brethren, beloued and longed for in the Lord: The blessed Apostle put∣ting downe some certaine pre∣cepts or Canons concerning the sacred Schooles of prophesie, obser∣ueth (in effect) this following order. First, hee permitteth the Prophets to speake by two or by three, appointing the o∣ther Prophets to determine vprightlie of that which they speake: and then next, hee decreeth, that if any thing be reuealed to another which sitteth by, the former should be silent a time, and the other man speake, be∣cause all (being thereunto called) may prophesie one by one, that all may learne, and all may haue comfort. Howbeit, least any the Prophets should happily pre∣sume (vpon this his permission) to speake at their pleasure, the Apostle forthwith (for auoyding disor∣dered confusion) subiecteth the spirits of the Prophets to

which more is (if wee found them able to mannage their matters) to giue them the hand of fellowship con∣cerning their doubtfull cause. Or if happily (vpon bet∣ter deliberation) they yeelded the question to vs: wee protested further, to conceale their secret being, vntill some good course might forthwith be taken for in∣forming authoritie as well of their pres