Declaratory considerations upon the present state of affairs of England by way of supplement.


DECLARATORY
CONSIDERATIONS
Upon the
Present State
OF THE
AFFAIRS
OF
ENGLAND.
By Way of
SUPPLEMENT.
London, Printed, Anno 1679.
DECLARATORY
CONSIDERATIONS
Upon the Present State of the Affairs of
ENGLAND.OUR first Conversation and Discourse having pro∣duced
what you see, it happen'd that the diversity
of Judgements, which was past upon it, has been
the subject Matter of this second, in which I said,
that the Censors of my writing were divided into two Classes,
viz. into those who condemned the Matter and the Publica∣tion
of it, and into them, who highly approved of both, but
they would rather I had more enlarged my self upon some
Considerations to bring the Parliament to the re-uniting of
Conformists and Non-Conformists, without which we
must neither hope, nor expect that the Papists should leave
off the design that they have had in hand for these so many
years, of bringing Popery into England, by such wayes, as
it even gives one a horrour but to mention. The Result of
our second Conversation was, that we fell upon some Pro∣positions,
which might give much satisfaction to the Censors
of the latter Class, who find no other fault in my Writing,
but that I was not more prolix in those things I have told
you of. 'Tis a Subject, upon which, you, who have frequent
Conversations with Parliament Men, of greatest merit and e∣minency,
ought especially to insist upon: Tell them then, that
in truth both you and I have found the last, and, I hope, shall
find these succeeding Members to be filled with these two
good designs, whereof the one is to oppose themselves to
that which the Papists have long been projecting. Viz. To

bring Popery into England, whatsoever it costs them, and
rather than fail or miss of their project▪ to make use of
Sword, Fire, and Poison, and to Massacre those that stand in
their way to hinder them; and not so much as to spare the
sacred Person of the KING, (who is the Lords anointed,
and whom he hath hitherto preserved as the Apple of his Eye,
and whom, I hope and pray he will long continue among
us) and those of the Royal Family, if they are any obstacle
to their designs: You and I, I say, shall find them strongly
engag'd in the said design and resolution of bringing it to a
happy success, by the establishment of the Protestant Religi∣on
in such a manner, as may perpetuate it, and transmit it to
Posterity, without any further disturbance or perplexity,
and which may be inviolably fastened to the crown of both
this, and all our other Kings, that shall come after him. The
other design is to procure in the Civil State, Peace, Liberty,
and Riches to the People, in putting bounds to Monarchical
Government, which altho it be the most excellent in the
World, hath a natural inclination to that which is Arbi∣trary.
BUT neither you nor I have as yet found, that those Par∣liament
Men have thought upon putting the Protestant Re∣ligion
on its true and so