Mr. Pim's speech, deliverd at a conference betvvixt both Houses, concerning divers petitions presented to the House of Commons hee being appoynted to manage that conference. Ianu. XXV. M.D.CXLI.


Mr. Pim's Speech, Deliverd at a Conference betvvixt both Houses, concerning divers Petitions presented to the House of COMMONS▪ Hee being appoynted to manage that Conference. IANU. XXV. MDCXLI.My Lords,I Am commanded by the Knights, Citizens and Burgesses assembled for the Commons in Parliament, to present to your Lordships divers Petitions, which they have received from severall parts concerning the State of the •ingdom: whereunto they are chiefly moved by that Constant affe∣ction, which they have always exprest, of maintaining a firme Ʋnion and good Correspondence with your Lordships; wherin they have ever found much advantage, and contentment; but never held it more important and necessary, than at this time, wherein the Wisdome and Resolution of Parliament, have as many great Dangers and Difficul∣ties to passe through, as ever heretofore.
We are Ʋnited in the publique trust, which is derived from the Com∣mon-wealth in the common Duty and Obligation whereby God doth bind us to the discharge of that trust: and the Commons desire to impart to your Lordships whatsoever Information or Intelligence, whatsoever In∣couragement or Assistance they have received from those severall Countries, which they represent, that so likewise we may be Ʋnited in the same In∣tentions and Endeavours of improving all to the service of his Majesty, and the common good of the Kingdome.
The Petitions which I am directed to communicate to your Lordships, are foure: from London, Midlesex, Essex and Hertforashire▪ We have re∣ceived many more, but it would take up too much time, and be too great a trouble to peruse all; and, in those foure, you may perceive the Effect and Sense of all. First, I am to desire your Lordships to heare them read, and then I shall persue my Instructions in propounding some Observati∣ons out of them.
The Petitions being read by foure severall Members of the House, Mr. PIM reassumed his Discourse.My Lords,IN these foure Petitions you may heare the voyce or rather the cry of all England, and you cannot wonder if the ur∣gency, the extremity of the condition wherein we are, do produce some earnestnes and vehemency of expression more than ordinary; the agony, terror, and perplexity in which the Kingdom labours, is universall, all parts are af∣fected with it; and therefore in these you may observe the groanes and miserable complaints of all.
Divers reasons may be given why those diseases which are Epidemi∣call are more dangerous than others. The Cause of such diseases is univer∣sall and supernall, not from an evill constitution, or evill diet, or any o∣ther accident: and such causes work with more vigour and efficacy, than those which are particular and inferior. 2. In such diseases there is a com∣municative quality, whereby the malignity of them is multiplied