The Kings Maiesties speeches in this great and happy Parliament Novemb. 3, 1640.


 [illustration] 
THE KINGS MAIESTIES SPEECHES, In this Great and Happy Parliament.
Novemb. 3. 1640.
 [illustration]  [horse-drawn cart] 
Printed, Anno 1641.
His Majesties first Speech in Parliament, the 3. of November. 1640.My Lords,THe knowledge I had of the desires of my Scottish Subjects, was the cause of my calling the last Assembly of Parliament, wherein had I been be∣leeved; I sincerely think, that things had not faln out as now we see. But it is no wonder that men are so slow to beleeve that so great a sedition should be raised on so little ground. But now my Lords, and Gentlemen, the honour and safety of this Kingdom lying so nearly at the stake; I am resolved to put my self freely, and cleerly on the love and affections of my English Subjects, as these of my Lords that did wait on me at York, very well remem∣ber I there declared. Therefore my Lords, I shall not men∣tion mine own interest, or that support I might justly expect from you, till the common safety be secured; though I must tell you I am not ashamed to say, those charges I have been at, have been meerly for the securing and good of this Kingdom, though the successe hath not been answerable to my desires. Therefore I shall onely desire you to consider the best way both for the safety and security of this Kingdom, wherein their are two parts chiefly considerable. First, the chastising out of the Re∣bels. And secondly, the other, in satisfying your just grievances, wherein I shall promise you to concurre so heartily and clearly with you, that all the World may
see my intentions have ever been, and shall be, to make this a glorions and flourishing Kingdom. There are onely two things that I shall mention to you; First, the one is to tell you that the Loan of money which I lately had from the City of London, wherein the Lords that waited on me at York assisted me, will onely maintain my Army for two moneths from the beginning of that time it was granted. Now my Lords, and Gentlemen, I leave it to your considerations, what dishonour and mischief it might be, in case for want of money my Army be disband∣ed, before the Rebels be put out of this Kingdom. Se∣condly, the securing the calamities the Northern people endure at this time, and so long as the treaty is on foot. And in this I may say not onely they, but all this King∣dome will suffer the harm; therefore I leave this also to your consideration, for the ordering of these great affairs whereof you are to treat at this time. I am so confident of your love to me, and that your care is for the honour and safety of the Kingdom, that I shall freely and willingly leave to you where to begin: onely this, that you may the better know the state of all the Affairs. I have commanded my Lord Keeper to give you a short and free accompt of these things that have hapned in this interim, with this Protestation, that if this accompt be not satisfactory as it ought to