A modest and peaceable inquiry into the design and nature of some of those historical mistakes that are found in Dr. Stillingfleet's preface to his Unreasonableness of separation wherein the innocency of Protestant dissenters is cleared up and vindicated from the indecent censures of the doctor / by N. B.


A MODEST and PEACEABLE INQUIRY INTO THE DESIGN and NATURE OF Some o those Historical Mistakes That are ound in Dr. Stillinleet's PREFACE TO HIS Ʋnreasonableness o SEPARATION. WHEREIN The Innocency o Protestant Dissenters is cleared up and Vindicated rom the indecent Censures o the Doctor.
By N. B.
Out o thine own mouth will: jud thee.
Luk. 19.22.LONDON, Printed or Tho. Parkhurst at the Bible and Three Crowns in Cheapside, near Mercers-Chappel, 1681.
To the REVEREND Dr. Stillinleet.SIR,'TIS well known unto you, that the Ruin o Enland, and o the Churches o Christ in it, hath been ever since the First Reormation, aimed at by the Papists, whose rae hath not only appeared in the many little Plots that have been rom time to time discover'd; but even in their Rebellions and Insurrections in Kin Edward's days. The Spanish Armado in Queen Elizabeth's. The Gun-Powder Treason in Kin James, &c. and this l•te Hellish Conspiracy, which was desin'd or the utter Extirpation o the Protestant Relii∣on, and the Universal destruction o all the Proessors thereo, whether Episcopal, or Dissenter. For which reason, this is no time to add ewel to the Fire o Protestant Dissentions. Nor is it meet to insist on any matter o Indierence so ar as thereby to hinder a irm and lastin Ʋnion amon Protestants. I the Dissenters can without oence to God, and wron to their own Consciences comply with the Terms impos'd by you or Ʋnion, their non-compliance is a sin, that in its tendencies advances Popery: But i the Dissenter cannot conscientiously conorm to your Impositions, as they really cannot, and you can without sin make such easie Overtures or Peace, as may be rateul to Dissenters, your reu∣sin in this case to comply, doth suiciently evince You to be the Divider, and Promoter o the Papacy.
The Dissenters bein sincerely desirous to do the utmost they can without sin or Ʋnion, you reatly injure them in representin them as Enemies thereunto. 'Tis true, you cry up Ʋnion, Ʋnion, but you will not part with what you jud but a trile, or it. You cry down Dissenters as enemies to Peace and Concord, as Schismaticks, Factions
and Seditious, as Friends to Popery, exposin them to the reatest con∣tempt and rae o your Considents, as i their Consciences were but Hu∣mour, their sense o Scripture but ancy, their Sincerity in embracin the Protestant Reliion but Hypocrisie, their Zeal〈◊〉Reormation but a blastin it, and their Opposition unto Popery a promotin it. But is this air and equal? Doth such a Procedure become the Learnin, the Gra∣vity and Reliion o Dr. Stillin sleet? Can you in your more cool de∣liberations relect on all this with uninterrupted peace? What, without any rebukes or checks o C