General heads for the natural history of a country great or small drawn out for the use of travellers and navigators / imparted by ... Robert Boyle ...; to which is added, other directions for navigators, etc. with particular observations of the most noted countries in the world ; by another hand.


GENERAL HEADS
FOR THE
Natural History
OF A
COUNTRY,
Great or Small;
Drawn out for the Use of
TRAVELLERS
AND
NAVIGATORS.
Imparted by the late Honourable
ROBERT BOYLE, Esq
Fellow of the Royal Society. Ordered to be published in his Life-time, at the
Request of some Curious Persons.
To which is added, other Directions for Na∣vigators,
&c. with particular Observa∣tions
of the most noted Countries in the
World: By another Hand.
LONDON, Printed for John Taylor at the Ship in
S. Paul's Church-yard, and S. Holford, at the
〈…〉 in the Pall Mall. 1692.
J. I. Lucas
TO THE
READER.I doubt not but it will be sufficient to
recommend to you the ensuing
Treatise, to know that the first
and most general part of it was
designed for thy Benefit, by the Ho∣nourable
Mr. BOYLE, some
Months before his Death, in complyance
with the frequent Importunities of many
curious Gentlemen, Physicians, &c. that
came to visit him, who were very desir∣ous
to have Directions how they might im∣prove
themselves by their Travels to the
best Advantage. Since that Time Ad∣ditions
to it have been made, partly out
of Mr. Boyle's own, and partly out of
other Men's Writings, brought together,
to be, as it were, under one View, for
the further Satisfaction of the Ingenious;
though in doing of this the Compiler has

left himself a Liberty to insert such things
as he thought might be either for the De∣light
or Profit of the Curious Traveller,
for whom the whole of this Treatise is
designed. You have here, in the First
place the General Directions, divided
into such as relate to the whole Micro∣cosme,
pag. 1. II. To Navigation,
pag. 12. III. To Mines, pag. 18.
IV. Vegetables, pag. 48.
As for particular Directions, we
have begun first with Turky, pag. 58.
after that Egypt, pag. 67. III. Gui∣ny,
pag. IV. Poland, pag. 75.
V. Hungaria and Transilvania, p. 80.
VI. Suratte, p. 87. VII. Persia,
101. VIII. Virginia, pag. 102.
IX. Guaiana and Brasil, pag. 106.
X. The Antisles and Caribbe Islands,
109. In the End you have an Index,
for the most Material Words and Things
in the Treatise.
If this Treatise meet with a favorable
Acceptance, we purpose to give you Vse∣ful
and Pleasant Enlargments upon most
of these Heads, with an Addition of New
Ones, not here mention'd. Adieu▪
General Heads
FOR
The Natural History
OF A
COUNTRY,COnsidering the great Im∣provements,
that have
of late been made of
Natural History (the
only sure Foundation of Natural
Philosophy,) by the Travels of
Gentlemen, Seamen, and others;
And the gread Disadvantage ma∣ny
Ingenious Men are at in their

Travels, by reason they know
not before-hand, what things
they are to inform themselves of
in every Country they come to,
or by what Method they may