The dancing-school with the adventures of the Easter holy-days.


THE Dancing-School.
WITH THE ADVENTURES OF THE Easter Holy-Days.
LONDON, Printed by I. How, in the Ram-head-Inn-Yard, in Fanchurch-Street, 1700.
Books Sold by J. How, in the Ram-Head-Inn-Yard in Fanchurch-Street; J. Weld, at the Crown between the Temple-Gates in Fleet-street; and Mrs. Fabian, at Mercers-Chappel in Cheap∣side.1. SOt's Paradise: Or the Humours of a Derby-Ale-House: With a Satyr upon the Ale. Price Six Pence.2. A Trip to Iamaica: With a True Character of the People and Island. Price Six Pence.3. Eclesia & Factio. A Dialogue between Bow-Steeple-Dragon, and the Exchange-Grashopper. Price Six Pence.4. The Poet's Ramble after Riches. With Reflections upon a Country Corporation. Also the Author's Lamentation in the time of Adversity. Price Six Pence.5. A Trip to New-England. With a Character of the Coun∣try and People, both English and Indians. Price Six Pence.6. Modern Religion and Ancient Loyalty: A Dialogue. Price Six Pence.7. The World Bewitch'd. A Dialogue between Two Astro∣logers and the Author. With Infallible Predictions of what will happen from the Vices and Villanies Practis'd in Court, City and Country. Price Six Pence.8. A Walk to Islington: With a Description of New Tun∣bridge-VVells, and Sadler's Musick-House. Price Six Pence.9. The Humours of a Coffee-House: A Comedy. Price Six Pence.10 A Frolick to Horn-Fair. With a Walk from Cuck∣old's-Point thro' Deptford and Greenwich. Price Six-Pence.11. The First Volume of the LONDON-SPY? In Twelve Parts.12. The First, Second Third, and Fourth Parts of the Se∣cond Volume of the London-Spy.All Written by the same Author.
THE Dancing-School, &c.IN the Week before Easter, when School-boys plead their old Charter of Omnia Bene, in opposition to the Tyranni∣cal Injunction of Buttock-Pennance, inflicted according to the Arbitrary Wills of those Grammarian Monarchs, who Govern absolute in their Kingdoms of Instruction, who now, pursuant to an old Custome, submit to a Cessation of Birch Arms, by which they us'd to Rule, Awe, and Terrifie their Infant Subjects; and when Womens Taylors were as busie in Turning of old Gowns, and Repairing the Decay'd Ornaments of Maids, Wives, and Widows, to set them off, as Nature does the Season of the Year, to the best advantage, that they may walk with their Gallants to Islington, and there make as great a Consumption of Bottle-Ale and Plumb-Cakes, as ever was made of Pig, Pork, and prick'd Wines, during the Revels of St. Bartholomew: 'Twas then I found my Blood had acquir'd a pleasing warmth, and as it Circulated thro' its Channels, gave to each Vein a Voluntary Titillation, without either Female Dalliance, or the force of Imagination; that I began to be as Rampant as a Parsons Bull in the Spring, turn'd into new Pasture; and could think of nothing but fine Faces, Charming Bubbies, Plump Hips, Soft Bellies, Condescending Mo-Mo-Modicums, and such sort of strange Whimsies; that I found my self