Navigation improv'd: or, The art of rowing ships of all rates, in calms, with a more easy, swift, and steady motion, than oars can. Also, a description of the engine that performs it; and the author's answer to all Mr. Dummer's objections that have been made against it ... By Tho. Savery, gent.


Navigation Improv'd: Or, the ART of Rowing SHIPS Of all Rates, in CALMS, With a more easy, swift, and steady Motion, than OARS can.
ALSO, A Description of the ENGINE that performs it; And the Author's ANSWER to all Mr. Dummer's OBJECTIONS that have been made against it.
Magna est Veritas & Praevalebit.
By Tho. Savery, Gent.
LONDON, Printed and Sold by James Moxon, at the Atlas in Warwick-Lane, 1698.
THE DEDICATION To all the Masters of the Art OF NAVIGATIONGentlemen,THE chief Strength and Se∣curity of the Nation as well as the Wealth and Riches of it, depending under God, and our good King, on your Integrity, Courage and Conduct;
I have no reason to suspect Men of your Honesty and Bravery, will suffer your Judgments to be by∣ass'd or prejudiced against me, in favour of my Adversaries, who I think, without much ground, opposed the making my EN∣GINE useful to the NAVY of ENGLAND, as I design'd it; for no other reason that I know of, than that it is not their own Contrivance: And therefore, as an English Man, and a Lover of my Country, I humbly submit the Justice of my Cause, and what I here say in my Defence, to your Judgment and Candor; and am
Your humble Servant, T. S.TO THE READER.KInd Reader, if you give your self the trouble to look into this small Treatise, pray read it through, and you will find my Reputation being concern'd, (a thing upon which my Welfare doth depend;) I am ne∣cessitated to write it. For after I had troubled my Thoughts and rack'd my Brains, to find out that which a great many have spent several years in vain in the pur∣suit of, when I had brought it to a Draught on Paper, and found it approved by those commonly reputed Ingeni∣ous, and receiving Applause, with promises of great Re∣ward from Court, if the thing would answer the end for which I propos'd it: after I had with great Charge and several Experiments, brought it to do beyond what I ever promis'd or expected my self, at last one Man's Hu∣mour, and no more than a Humour, totally obstructed the use of my ENGINE, to the great Disservice of both
King and Country, and my no small loss. But it's the nature of some Men to decry all Inventions, how service∣able soever to the Publick, that are not the Product of their own Brains. I hope therefore you will think me excusable, if I endeavour to satisfy the World, that I do understand something of the Business I pretend to; and if by the means of it Mankind receives any Advan∣tage, I shall think my self very happy, for the promoting the common good of every body, hath always been my chief Delight; and certainly, nothing contributes more to it than the Improvements made by the Mechanicks: for that Noble Machine called a SHIP, is no more