Nevv-England freemen warned and warmed, to be free indeed, having an eye to God in their elections: in a sermon preached before the court of election at Boston, on the last day of May, 1671. / By J.O. Pastour of the First Church in Boston. ; Published by order of the General Court.


Nevv-England Freemen Warned and Warmed, To be Free indeed, having an Eye to God in their ELECTIONS:
In a Sermon Preached before the Court of ELECTION At Boston, on the last Day of May, 1671.
By J. O. Pastour of the first Church in Boston.
Published by Order of the General Court.
Printed in the Year. 1673.
Christian Reader,_I Was invited by the House of De|puties to Preach at the time and on the occasion mentioned in the Title page, and that work (though very mean) found that acceptance, that Captain Savage the Speaker with Captain Clark came in the name of that House to give me thanks: Since which the Deputies, with the concurrence of the Magistrates ordered the Printing of this poor piece; It was once in my thoughts here to have prefaced an Explication of some particulars, which it seems did not sound well in the ears of two or three persons whom I honour; but my second thoughts did contradict, telling me my Order was only for the Printing of the Sermon, and that the ex|p•ication and defence thereof (if a tincture of prejudice▪ did remain) might as well be mi|staken as the Sermon, and so occasion inconve|nient alteration; wherefore I forbear, being conscious to my self of no other scope nor mean|ing then what will be agreeable to all faithful

Patriots and true lovers of this Country, with whom therefore I am willing to leave this Te|stimony before I dye; and that it may appear that I aim at what was in the heart of some long before me in time and worth; take some passages which have had unquestioned allow|ance in this Land:
Mr. Shepard in his first part of the Para|ble of the Virgins, page 166. Who seeth not (that observes the Lords dealing) that some sorrows are toward, unless the Lord a|waken, some suddain blasting blow. If any wind be st••ring; men on the tops of the moun|tains will feel it, and its folly to think to flee from the crosse unless we flee from Christ. 'Tis part of the portion he doth owe us here, if he love us.
I do fear there is at this day as deep mischief plotting against New-England as ever the Sun saw: Enemies will first deal subtilly be|fore cruelly, but subtilly that they may deal cruelly; When Pharaoh deals wisely, he meant to kill:
Being come hither for publick helps and means and all ordinances, Oh do not betray your liberties, but lose your blood before you lose them, and the Lord in them; 〈◊〉 the Ark still on your shoulders that the Lord may dwell with you.
Idem 2d. part, page 16. If ever this Coun|try receive a blovv it vvill be by appearances, if eve• any shall come under an appearance of pie•y and promise of protection, safety, liberty, only your Government must be a little altered, slumber here and you shall sleep in your ene|mies a