The day-dawning and the day-star arising to the dispersed of Judah & Israel wherein is briefly handled their call and Christs second coming, whose day is neer at hand / by Tho. Collier.


 THE Day-Dawning, And the DAY-STAR Arising to the Dispersed of JUDAH & ISRAEL.
Wherein is briefly handled Their CALL, AND CHRISTS Second coming, whose day is neer at hand.
By THO. COLLIER.
LONDON, Printed by H. Hills for T. Brewster, at the three Bibles, neer the West end of Pauls, 1655.
〈…〉It may seem strange, that I, at such a distance from you, and not of your nation, should trouble my self so much about your estate, being a people now despicable in the worlds eyes, scattered and dis∣persed among the nations; and upon a rational account unlikely to be a people beloved for the Fa∣thers sake, and that shall be ho∣noured of God when the nations shall fall before you, and confess you a people sought out and sav∣ed, and not forsaken: but I have had several prevailing arguments in mine own heart, which have occasioned me to present you with this Epistle, and I intreat and beseech you for the Lords sake, and for the love of the truth, that you do read this Epistle, and ponder it well in your hearts, de∣siring the God of Grace to give you an understanding in the truth herein presented to you,
 for with much bowels of tender∣ness and love, have I written to you: the reasons moving me thereunto are these.
1. That cleer discovery God hath given me by his Spirit from the Word of truth of his inten∣tion to do you good; and that although you have been a long time rejected and scattered for your own sake, yet you are be∣loved, and shall be gathered for the Fathers sake.
Secondly, being thus instructed in the truth of your calling, it lay much as a duty upon my heart (and I am confident from the Lord) to write unto you; that I might perform my duty to you in my generation, leaving the blessing to the Lord.
Thirdly, Likewise being assu∣red that the time of your gathe∣ring is at hand.
Fourthly, knowing likewise
 that your fullness will be the time of the deliverance of all believing Gentiles, now dispersed and trampled under foot for their Lords sake; for he was given to be a light to the Gentiles, and the glory of his people Israel.
Fifthly and last, I finde it to be the desire of Manasseh Ben Israel, in his book titled, The hope of Israel, in his Epistle to the Reader, That if any to whom his book came, had any thing worthy of posterity, that they would give him notice of it. I have not here presented you with any thing of History or outward learning, but have in∣deavored, according to the grace received, in the plain evidence and demonstration of the Spirit and power of truth, to present you with such things, as may, through the blessing of God, tend to your eternal good.
 The first principle of truth I have to present you with, is, that the true and promised Messiah was, according to the counsel of God, to suffer death for the re∣demption of sinners; and this I shall clear