Golden remains of Sir George Freman, Knight of the Honourable Order of the Bath being choice discourses on select subjects.


Golden Remains
OF
Sir GEORGE FREMAN,
Knight of the Honourable Order
OF THE
BATH.
BEING CHOICE
DISCOURSES
ON
Select Subjects.
LONDON,
Printed by J. M. and are to be sold
by Henry Bonwicke, at the Red-Lyon
in St Paul's Church-Yard, 1682.
PREFACE.THE great charity the Author
had for souls (lest any should
take example by seeing him
drink) and the desire he had of ma∣king
what restitution he could, was the
reason he desired me to set out his Trea∣tise
against Drinking after his Death.
And as I who was constantly with him
must needs know him better than any
other; so I think my self obliged to do
him that right, as to let the world
know he was not the Man they gene∣rally
took him for. I can justly say I
never knew any one of a more tender
Conscience: after he had been in com∣pany,
if upon inquiry into himself he
found he had committed a sin in drink∣ing
too much, or done any thing he
thought extravagant, he would very
much lament himself, and hath sent for
the company he was with, and given
them good advice, perswading them to
a holy life. He has made resolutions to



drink nothing but small Beer, which he
hath kept till the violence of his fits
seized on him so severely, that he has
been forced to drink some Wine to re∣lieve
him from them; but hath been ex∣treamly
troubled, and said to me, what
a miserable condition am I in, that
these fits should force me to that I would
fain quite cast off; and would take it
with great caution, and say, Lord give
a blessing so far as I may lawfully pray.
For his Family Duties, he was care∣ful
there should be Prayers morning and
evening. For some time he had a Mi∣nister
in the House which said the
Church Prayers twice a day; when he
was gone, he performed the duty him∣self:
and when he was not able by rea∣son
of his illness, he order'd one of his
Sons to do it. Several times when he
rose from Prayers, he would give his
Servants good instructions: And when
he could not go to Church by reason of
the violence of his Fits, he would speak
to me to take care that his Children
and Servants went; and bid me tell
them the reason why he did not go, lest



they should take example by his staying
away, which he said he would never do
if it pleased God he had his health.
It was his constant practice before he
went abroad, though it was never so lit∣tle
a way, first to go to his Prayers and
beg a blessing of God. For his Chari∣ty
in giving Alms, he had bowels of
mercy, he seldom gave Alms but he shed
tears of compassion for their misery:
And when they return'd thanks in pray∣ing
for him, he would say to me, they
do me much more good by their prayers,
than I can do them with my Alms:
What a mercy it is that I have so much
plenty who deserve no more than they!
On the Lords day he had many of the
Poor dined with his Servants, which
he would speak to with a friendly kind∣ness,
and look on them with much joy,