The charge of scandal and giving offence by conformity refelled and reflected back upon separation : and that place of St. Paul I Cor. 10:32 that hath been so usually urged by dissenters in this case asserted to its true sence and vindicated from favouring the end for which it hath beed quoted by them.


THE Charge of Scandal, And giving OFFENCE BY CONFORMITY, Refelled, And Reflected back upon SEPARATION.
And that place of St. Paul, 1 Cor. 10.32. that hath been so usually urged by Dissenters in this Case, asserted to its true Sence, and vindicated from favouring the end for which it hath beed quoted by them.
By Dr Hesketh.
By Henry Hesketh.
Give none offence, neither to the Jews, nor to the Gentiles, nor to the Church of God.LONDON: Printed for Fincham Gardiner, at the White-Horse in Ludgate-street. 1683.
To the Christian-Reader.THou art not ignorant (I suppose) that this Argument hath been han∣dled by a far better Pen, an Au∣thor that doth every thing he un∣dertakes with that accuracy of Judgement, and strength of Reason, that becomes a person of his Character; and therefore mayest wonder what so mean a Scribe hath to do after him.
I have but this Answer onely to give thee; that it is neither affectation, nor conceit of this Pa∣per, that is the cause. This Discourse was shew∣ed to some persons, both friends to the world and the Author, who was wholly ignorant that the Subject was undertaken by another, and was thought fit to be stay'd till it was seen what that
 Discourse expected then would be; with a design to suppress it wholly, had the Method or the Ma∣nagement been near alike: which because it was not, and because the same thing that hits one fan∣cy, may not do so to another, or not to all, it was determined to venture this to the Publick al∣so.
Which the Author doth with Prayer for, and true Charity unto all that need such Discourses; beseeching God, that they may honestly and impar∣tially consider what hath been offered to them of late, to satisfie all their most material Scruples and Ob∣jections, and that they may find a suitable effect upon their own minds.
THE Charge of Scandal, And giving OFFENCE by CONFORMITY REFELLED.THere are very few things within the Sphere of Christian Religion, that more trouble and di∣stract the thoughts of men, than how to go∣vern themselves, and order their actions with respect to things that are called Indifferent.
In things that are essentially good or evil, or are made so by some plain Command or Prohibition of our great Lawgiver, all Parties are soon agreed; and there needs not any question or dispute between them in these: The Rule is plain, and (supposing men honest) there can∣not be any great mistake about them.
But in things that are left wholly undetermined by God, and neither directly, nor by just and natural con∣sequence either enjoyned or prohibited by any Law of his, there men sail not by so plain a Compass, but have a larger Scope, and may more easily mistake their Course.
It cannot therefore b