80
CLMET3_1_1_80.txt
1710-1780
X1725-1749?
1740s
?1745
Narrative non-fiction
bio
The life and surprizing adventures of Gilbert Langley
Langley, Gilbert
M
?
Autobiography
http://ota.ahds.ac.uk/text/5442.html
24-10-2012



THE LIFE And SURPRIZING ADVENTURES OF GILBERT LANGLEY , Formerly of Serle-Street , near Lincoln 's - Inn , Goldsmith and Jeweller , and afterwards a notorious Sharper and Gamester ; having ran away to Holland , with upwards of Twenty Thousand Pounds of his Creditors Money .


Written by HIMSELF in Maidstone Goal , whilst under Sentence of Death , for robbing John Springate of Feversham , of three Farthings , on the King 's Highway in the County of Kent .


LONDON : Printed by J. Webb , opposite the Queen 's - Head noar the Sessions-House in the Old-Baily .


1 .
THE LIFE &c. OF GILBERT LANGLEY .


 THE following Pages contain the Adventures of Gilbert Langley , Goldsmith , written by his own Pen .
It is conceived , that a liker Picture can not well be drawn than that which he has given us of himself , it is published chiefly for the Use of such as may resemble him in some Respects .
Many would fly from Vice if they saw her Face all at once , and in Day Light ; here she is , never was was she better known to any than to this Man , and he has sent her abroad in her own Cloaths .
His Stile is the Stile of a Man of Pleasure , and was not altered , because it may be of Use to know what sort of Stile that is .


Some People may perhaps fancy the reading such a Life dangerous , for their Sakes this Advertisement is prefixed .
If they see young People make ill Use of it , let them set them right , let them bid  these inconsiderate Folks make the Growth and Progress of Vice , from abusing Education to cheating a Father , to defrauding the World , from defrauding the World to downright Robbery , and so to the Gallows ; an open broad Road , and his unhappy Journey makes the Stages for others , that they stop or ride back in Time , according to the old approved Maxim .


Satius est recurrere quam currere male .
Better return , than in an ill Road run .
We commonly hear the young Spendthrists of our Times , discourse exactly in Mr. Langley 's Language , and reason , or rather pervert Reason as he does .
In such a Case , point out a similar Passage in this fine History of modern Gallantry , and put him in Mind of the Conclusion ; tell him , which is a certain Truth , that Greenwich Rambles lead to Maidstone Goal , that Intrigues with Prostitutes in the Pleasure rather of a Goat , than of a Man , and that the Digressions from the Paths of Virtue , is walking for the Air in Tyburn Road , where you run more Hazards than one of Choaking .
But to proceed to his own Account .


Gilbert Langley , eldest Son of Holdenby Langley , an eminent Goldsmith in London , and Nephew to Sir Thomas Langley , Bart .
was born Nov. 19 , 1710 ; at three Years of Age he was sent down to his Grandmother 's Seat at Peldersley in Derbyshire , under whose Care he continue