The alsufficient physician tendering to heal the political and spiritual wounds & sicknesses of a distressed province. As it was discoursed in a sermon preached before His Excellency the governour, the Honourable Council and representatives of the province of the Massachusetts-Bay in New-England, on May 30. 1711. Which was the day for election of Her Majesties [sic] Council for that province. / By Peter Thacher, A.M. and Pastor of the church in Milton. ; [Five lines of Scripture texts]


THE Alsufficient Physician Tendering to Heal the Political and Spiritual Wounds & Sicknesses OF A Distressed PROVINCE.
As it was Discoursed in a SERMON Preached before His Excellency the GOVERNOUR, the Honourable COUNCIL and Representatives of the Province of the Massachusetts-Bay in New-England, on May 30. 1711.
Which was the Day for Election of Her Majesties Council for that Province.
By PETER THACHER, A. M. And Pastor of the Church in Milton.
Hos. 6.1, 2.
Come and let us return unto the Lord▪ for he hath torn, and he will heal us, &c.Jer. 17.14.
Heal me, O LORD, & I shall be healed: save me, and I shall be saved.Exod. 15.26.
I am the LORD that healeth thee.Boston: Printed by B Green, for Eleazer Phillips, at his Shop on the South side of the Town-house 1711.
Boston, May, 31st. 1711.PRinted at the des;ire of the House of Repre∣sentatives.
John Burrell Speaker.Soveraign Divine Healing.ISAIAH. LVII.18.I have seen his ways, and will heal him: I will lead him also, and restore Comforts unto him, and to his Mourners.IT was a sad and awful Expostulation ut∣tered by the holy Prophet, in Jer. 14.19 Hast thou utterly rejected Judah? hath thy Soul loathed Zion? Why hast thou smitten us and there is no healing for us? We looked for Peace and there is no good; and for the time of healing, and behold trouble; Hence the same Prophet gives vent to his pent up grief, by saying, When I would comfort my self against sorrow, my heart is faint in me; the Harvest is past, the Summer is end∣ed, and we are not healed; for the hurt of the Daugh∣ter of my People, I am hurt, I am black, Astonisment hath taken hold upon me: Is there no Balm in Gilead? Is there no Physician there? Jer. 8.18, 20, 21, 22. Our Text presents a rich and royal Cordial that may revive the drooping Spirits of God's Children when his backslidden People among whom they live, are by their own Sins, & God's judgments

sunk into the greatest depth of distress; in that it gives us God's Free and Soveraign Ingage∣ment in way of Prerogative Mercy, To be a Healer to this Sin-sick and Self-destroying Peo∣ple: Wherein the great God presents himself under the Notion of an Alsufficient Physician,
1. Graciously Visiting this Sick Patient, [I have seen] I who am the High and Lofty One, that inhabiteth Eternity, the holy One of Israel his Saviour and Physician, I am come, not as a Judge, to punish, but as a compassionate Physician, to visit and take notice of the Malady; in order to the Application of a suitable rememy.
2. This