Hearts-ease in heart-trouble. Or, A soveraign remedy against all trouble of heart that Christ's disciples are subject to under all kinds of afflictions in this life. Prescribed by the great physician, the Lord Jesus Christ, which hath never failed those that have used it, or ever will, to the end of the world. By J.B. Minister of the gospel.


 HEARTS-EASE IN HEART-TROUBLE.
OR, A Soveraign Remedy against all Trouble of Heart that Christ's Dis∣ciples are subject to, under all kinds of Afflictions in this Life. Prescri∣bed by the great Physician, the Lord Jesus Christ, which hath never fai∣led those that have used it, or ever will, to the End of the World.
〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉O the blessedness of all them that trust in him. The full Soul lotheth the Honey-Comb; but to the hungry Soul every bitter thing is sweet,Prov. 27. 7.By J. B. Minister of the Gospel.
LONDON, Printed for J. Robinson, at the Golden Lion in St. Paul's Church-yard, 1696.
An EPISTLE to the Meek and Lowly-Hearted Readers, whohave learned of their dear Lord so to be, who himself will not break the bruised Reed,  nor quench the smoaking Flax.Charitable Reader,CHarity (which is the Bond of Per∣fectness, and the greatest Rarity now in the World, and in the Church too, the more is the pity) thou must put on, who
••adest this, the plainest and 〈◊〉 unpolish'd Piece that ever thou sawest, (for the Author never had skill in dressing) if thou meanest to profit any thing by it, which is the only thing, God knows, is aimed at by the Author, who always prays and studies to speak (and write) ra∣ther to Mens Hearts than Ears, his own and others; and by God's Word, to work Faith, rather than feed Fan∣cy: Charity, I say, thou must have, for that will cover a multitude of Sins, much more of Infirmities, which here thou must expect to meet: Charity beareth all things,believeth all things, hopeth all things, endureth all things: If thou wilt but ex∣ercise thy Charity in reading,
 and join therewith thy fer∣vent Prayers for a Blessing, thou mayest attain thine End and mine also, to wit, thy E∣dification, for Charity edi∣fieth.
In hope of gaining thy Cha∣rity, suffer me to give a short (but true) account of the en∣suing Treatise, viz. I being about three Years since, for some Reasons, retired from my Family, and place of A∣bode; and by Sickness, and other things, confined; du∣ring which time, many of my dear Friends and Relations in Christ were called home to their Father's House; whereupon I thought it my Duty to write some Lines to their surviving Relations, as I was by them desired to do; and after seek∣ing
i God for Counsel and Assi∣stance, I thought on this Text spoken to in the following Dis∣course; (for it was not at the least in my thoughts ever to publish this, or any other, know∣ing my own inability) I wrote in my homely Stile what thou wilt here find (all except the Title Page, This, and the Post-script) calculating it to the Capacities of the plainest Christians; to whom I then sent it,