A declaration from the Generall and Council of State to incite all the good people of these nations to thankfullness and holy rejoycing in the Lord, for the late great victory at sea, obtained by the fleet of this Common-wealth against the Dutch, upon Thursday and Friday being the second and third of June 1653.


A DECLARATION from the GENERALL AND COUNCIL of STATE, To incite all the good People of these Nations to thankfullness and holy rejoy∣cing in the Lord, for the late great Victory at Sea, obtained by the Fleet of this Common-wealth against the Dutch, upon Thursday and Friday being the second and third of June 1653.IT hath been a Custom much exercised to enjoin Days and Duties of Thanksgiving for Mercies received from the Lord: The suitablenesse of which practise with Gospel Times, and that Gospel Spirit, which is only to bear Rule in the Churches of God (where the Worship is to be in Spirit and Truth, exercised by a Free and willing People) is besides the intent of this Pa∣per to dispute.
But considering how welcom to the Lords People every occasion of praise, ministred by the Lord himself, and minded by those that manage the Publique Affairs, is, to such as wait for his Salvation, we have thought fit to commend this high and Heavenly Exercise and Privi∣lege, to all those, who are faithful in these Lands, in the words of the Prophet Isaiah.
Isa. 12. 4.In that day ye shall say, Praise the Lord, call upon his name, declare his doings among the People, make mention that his name is exalted.
 [Ver. 5]  Sing unto the Lord, for he hath done excellent things; this is known in all the Earth.
 [Ver. 6]  Cry out and shout, thou inhabitant of Zion; for great is the Holy One of Israel in the midst of thee.
Truly this is such a Day, if not that Day, it may be the dawning of it.
Isa. 10.A day of wo to unrighteous Judges, to Tyrants, to all the proud of the Earth.
Isa. 11.The day of him who is the rod, the branch, and the root of Iesse.
 [Ver. 5]  The day of his Righteousness and Faithfulness.
 [Ver. 6]  Of his beginning to heal the Creation.
 [Ver. 12, 13.]  The day of gathering his People, and taking away their envyings of one another, and making up their breaches.
This great Success against the Dutch (who, a few daies before, were lifted up with their Success in getting out their •ets for Trade, and bringing their Ships loaden with Merchandise home in safety, and in their braving it upon our •••s, shooting against our Towns and Castles in the absence of our Fleet) was a most Signal, and every way, a most •••nable mercy.
•he Victory was a compleat one.
The Enemy flying with great Terrour and Astonishment, having received great loss of Men and Ships, and this in ••view and hearing of the Subjects of France, and Spain, and their own Countrymen.
It was without the loss of one Ship on our part.
It was also seasonable, in abasing Pride, Haughtiness and fleshly Confidence, and in discovering Hypocrisie.
It was an Answer to the Faith and Prayers of Gods Peopl