Planes apokalypsis. Popery manifested, or, the Papist incognito made known by way of dialogue betwixt a Papist priest, Protestant gentleman, and Presbyterian divine. In two parts. Intended for the good of those that shall read it by L. B. P.


ΠΛΑΝΗΣ ΑΠΟΚΑΛΥΨΙΣ.
POPERY MANIFESTED, OR, THE Papist Incognito made known, By way of DIALOGUE Betwixt A
Papist Priest,Protestant Gentleman, andPresbyterian Divine.
In Two Parts.
Intended for the good of those that shall read it
By L. B. P.
LONDON, Printed for Henry Brome, at the Gun at the West End of S. Pauls. 1673.
TO THE Christian, Courteous and Impartial READER.I Would fain oblige thee in the begin∣ning of my Book, because possibly the rest will not please thee so well: Therefore instead of a Preface or a short Advertisement, wherewith usually the Reader is put off, I give thee an Epistle Dedica∣tory. This I hope will prove ac∣ceptable, in that it is a new device, and also because thou mayst have very cheap the Honour of having had a Book Dedicated to thee. But yet besides I assure thee, that this Book of itself is worth thy reading;
for it will make thee see in their natural shape and colours, many things which before appeared only under a disguise: and if thou art a Lover of Truth (as all pretend to be) thou canst not but rejoice to see it come out from under the Cloud, where before it lay hid. And withal, thou mayst use it as an Antidote against the Infection of some sugared Poisons, which many venture to drink of, not knowing their deadly Qualities. Therefore I require thee, that thou wouldest not fling away the Book as soon as thou findest some things in it, against thy former persuasions or thy present liking: for often∣times wholesom Physic is the most unpleasant, and if thou readest through, and then repentest of thy labour, I give it here under my hand, that I also will repent of
mine: but if the Book doth work upon thee the good effect I inten∣ded, all the Requital I expect is this; that as thou art unknown to the Author, so thou wouldest not enquire after him, because he is unwilling to be known any otherwise than by being
Thy Real Friend and Affectionate Well-wisher, L. B. P.THE PREFACE.MAny Learned Books have been written against the Errors of the Church of Rome, by seve∣ral worthy Champions of the Church of England, but usually they read them most that have least need of them, while in the mean time they that have but little of knowledge are left unarmed against the Crafts and Subtilties of the Propagators of the Roman Faith. I know there is an in-bred Aversion to Popery in the major part of our People, but Popery is now a word of a very dubious signification, and means rather what every one dislikes, than what is so indeed: and it is to be seen in the se∣cond part of this Book, that they that ex∣claim'd most against what they pleased to call Popery; ran themselves into the worst of Popish Errors.
However, 'tis not a brutish Hatred or a blind Zeal against unknown Errors can secure us from