Ichnographia. Or A model of the primitive congregational way: wherein satisfaction is offered, by unfolding (according to the Scriptures) what the right order of the Gospel, and way of the saints in the visible worshipping of God is, in the dayes of the New Testament. And how the saints in these dayes may walk up to it, notwithstanding their present hindrances. Together with the maine points in controversie, touching the right visible church-state Christ hath instituted under the Gospel, with the extent of church-officers, and power of particular visible churches, and continuance of divine ordinances and institutions under the defection and apostasie of Antichrist. By W. Bartlet, Minister of the Gospel, at Wapping.


Ι'ΧΝΟΓΡΑΦΙ'Α. OR A MODEL OF The Primitive Congregational way: Wherein satisfaction is offered, by unfolding (ac∣cording to the Scriptures) what the right order of the Gospel, and way of the Saints in the visible worshipping of God is, in the dayes of the New Testament.
And how the Saints in these dayes may walk up to it, notwithstanding their present hindrances.
Together with the maine points in controversie, touching the right visible Church-state Christ hath instituted un∣der the Gospel, with the extent of Church-Officers, and power of particular visible Churches, and conti∣nuance of Divine Ordinances and Institutions under the defection and Apostasie of Antichrist.
By W: BARTLET, Minister of the Gospel, at Wapping.
Esay 30.21. And thine eares shall heare a word behind thee, saying, This is the way, walke in it.Ezek. 43.11. And if they are ashamed of all they have done, shew them the form of the house, and the fashion thereof, &c.Rev. 18 4, 5. And I heard another voice from heaven, saying, Come out of her my people, that ye be not partakers of her sins, and that ye receive not of her plagues, for her sins have reached to heaven, and God hath remembred her iniquities.Jer. 50.5. They shall aske the way to Sion, with their faces thitherward, &c.Calv. in Epist. ad Sado et.In illa Ecclesiae forma quam Apostoli constituerunt, unicum habemus verae Ecclesiae exemplar: à qu• si quis vel minimum deflectit, aberrat.Echo Nobiliss. viri Pet. Beauvis. Benlosi.Papismus pompatica quaedam est Monar∣chia, quam genuit ambitio, fovit superstitio, roboravit Tyrannis, propagavit tam ignorantia seculi, quam fallacia pseudo-Cleri. Ergo ab execrandu Antichristi fae∣cibus redeatis, ad Christi sacra.LONDON, Printed by W.E. for H. Overton, at the entrance into Popes-head Alley, out of Lumbard-street. 1647.
To all the Saints, and Servants of Jesus Christ, scattered up and down in the King∣dome of England, and throughout the world, that hitherto have beene strangers to the paths of Sion, and have not worshipped God accor∣ding to the right order of the Gospell.Dearely beloved in the Lord,TIll better provision come, In all humility I here pre∣sent you as from Jesus Christ, (the Head and King of Saints) with this plain Treatise, for whose sakes it is composed, and