Die Martis. 23 May 1648. An ordinance of the Lords and Commons assembled in Parliament. For setling of the militia of the county of Hereford.


Die Martis. 23 May 1648.An Ordinance of the Lords and Commons Assembled in PARLIAMENT.For setling of the Militia in the County of Hereford.BE it Ordained by the Lords and Commons assembled in Parliament, that these persons fol¦lowing, viz. Walter Lord Viscount Hereford, Leicester Devereux Esquire, Sir Edward Pow¦ell Baronet, Sir Robert Harley Knight of the Bath, Sir Robert Pye Senior Knight, Franc•• Kirle Esquire, High Sheriffe of the County of Hereford, Edward Harley, Thomas Baskervile Edward Pitt Esquires, Walter Kirle, VVilliam Littleton, Robert Kyrle Robert Harley, John Scu¦damore of Ken Church, Samuel Mare, Bennet Hoskins, John Birch, VVilliam Crowther, Ambrose Elton Junior John Puteshall, Francis Pember, John Flacket, Junior, Thomas Rawlins Esquires; Major Thomas Bla¦ney, Captaine Priamus Davies, and Thomas Eaton Gentleman; Shall bee Commissioners for the Mi¦litia, in the County of Hereford, for the better securing and safety of the Parliament and the sai• County; And shall have power and Authority, and are hereby Authorized by themselves, o• any five or more of them to put the said County into a posture of defence, and to raise Forces Horse and Foot, and them to List, Arme, and exercise; and to forme them into Regiments, Troops and Companies, and them to Muster, Array and weapon from time to time in places fit for that pur¦pose: And to appoint over them Colonels, Captaines, and other Officers from time to time by Com¦missions under the hands and seales of the said Commissioners, or any seven of them, as often as there shal• be occasion in that behalfe: And shall have power, and are hereby authorized by themselves, or thei• said Commanders and Officers to lead, conduct and imploy the said persons arrayed, and weaponed fo• the suppression of all Rebellions and Insurrections that shall or may happen within the County aforesaid According as the said Commissioners, or any five of them shall from time to time give directions, or shal• be otherwise directed from time to time by the Lords and Commons in Parliament assembled, or th• Committee sitting at Derby house: Any former Order, Declaration, or other matter to the contrary hereof in any wise notwithstanding. And for all and every their doings herein, the said Commissioners and all and every the said Person and Persons shall be saved harmlesse and indempnified by the Authorit• of Parliament. Provided that this Ordinance and every thing therein conteyned shall continue fo• the space of sixe Moneths, and no longer.
Die Martis. 23 May 1648.ORdered by the Lords Assembled in Parliament, That this Ordinance be forthwith Prin¦ted and published.
Joh. Brown Cler. Parliamentorum.LONDON, Printed for John Wright at the Kings Head in the old Bayley. 1648.