A sermon preached before the right honorable Earle of Darbie, and diuers others assembled in his honors chappell at Newparke in Lankashire, the second of Ianuarie. Anno humanæ salut, 1577


A Sermon preached before the right honorable Earle of Darbie, and diuers others assembled in his honors Chappell at Newparke in Lan∣kashire, the second of Ianuarie. Anno humana Salut, 1577.
GALA. VI.¶ Dum tempus habemus opere∣mur bonum.
¶ Whyle we haue time let vs doo good.
 Gala. vi.¶ Imprinted at London by Thomas East: the xiiij. day of March. 1577.
TO THE RIGHT Honorable and his very good Lorde Henrie Earle of Darbie, Lorde Stanley and Strange, Lorde of Man and of the Iles adioyninge, and Knight of the moste noble order of the Garter: continuance of health with prosperitie, and in∣crease of honor.):(
YOV Knowe right well (right honorable & my very good Lorde) that I accordinge to my dutie giuinge attendaūce vpō your Lordshippe in the tyme of Christmas laste past, was ap∣pointed by your honour to preach be∣fore you in your Chapple, at newe∣parke, the second of Ienuarie, at which tyme I entreated of this text of Sainct Paule. Rom 13. [Id{que} perspecta oportu∣nitate quod videlicet tempestiuū iam sit nos a somno expergisci,] & so forth vnto the end of the chapter: according as it pleased God at that time to mini∣ster vnto me matter, and to giue vnto

me the spirit of vtteraūce. Which Ser∣mon finished, I was immediately called vnto your honor, & by you earnestly re¦quested without delay to set downe in wryting, such lessons and instructions as I had in your presence, & before cer∣tain gētlemen of worship, vttered with my mouth. And herewithall it pleased your honor, not only to require a copie of my Sermon, but also to giue me to vnderstand that you would send it vp to London to be Printed, to the ende that the thinges which I had vttered before a fewe at home in your house, might be further published abroade to the vse and behoofe of many. Which when I perceaued, I must needes con∣fesse, that I was very loth, & altogether vnwilling to deliuer to that ende into your Lordshippes handes any copy of that which I had preched. First bicause my dooinges are so simple, and my skil so small, that they deserue not to come abroade into the sight of the world. Secondly, many are so fine and daintie, that nothing can please & content thē, vnlesse it flow and swim with store of

eloquence. Thirdly, and last of all, bi∣cause I feare that when many haue read it▪ I shall by my playnnesse procure to my self more misliking for publishing of it, then I had lyking of your honor for preaching of it. Howbeit your ho∣nors great goodnesse diuers times shew¦ed towards me, & your benefits bestow¦ed vpon me, which are yet greene & a∣byding fresh in my remembrāce, to my great releefe and comfort, & wherby I liue at this present a great deale the bet¦ter, haue ouercome all lettes and impe∣diments, & enforced me to satisfie your godly desire herein. Chosing rather to be mislyked for