A contention for truth: in two several publique disputations. Before thousands of people, at Clement Dane Church, without Temple Barre: upon the 19 of Nevemb. [sic] last: and upon the 26 of the same moneth. Betweene Mr Gunning of the one part, and Mr Denne on the other. Concerning the baptisme of infants; whether lawful, or unlawful.


A Contention for
TRUTH:
In Two Several Publique
DISPUTATIONS.
Before thousands of People, at Clement Dane
Church, without Temple Barre: upon the 19 of
Nevemb. last: and upon the 26 of the same
Moneth.
Betweene Mr Gunning of the one part, and
Mr Denne on the other.
Concerning the Baptisme of INFANTS;
Whether LAWFVL, or VNLAWFVL.
The Inspiration of the Almighty, giveth Vnderstanding.
Great men are not alwayes wise; neither do the aged
understand Judgement.
Job. 32. 8, 9.LONDON.
Printed by J. Moxon, for Francis Smith, and are
to be sold at his Shop, in Flying Horse Court in Fleet-street,
neer Chancery Lane end. And by John
Sweeting, at the signe of the Angel.
in Popes head Alley. 1658.
To the Reader.IS there no end of writing Books? Have not
our Ears been filled, and our Eyes wearied
with Hearing and Reading, touching this subject,
Both Pro and Contra? Are not the later
writers in behalfe of Infants Baptisme, very
many, viz. Cardinal Bellarmine, and a great
number of the sons of the Church of Rome:
who have in this point, dealt as ingeniously, as
pithily, as ever any that took up the defence of it
could do? Have we not often heard of it from
the pens of the reformers; in the infancy of their
reformation? viz. Luther, Melancthon,
Calvin: with a great number of late Doctors
and Masters: viz. Featly, Marshall, Good∣win,
Fuller, Baxter, Audley, with others?
Have we not had also many who have labour∣ed
not a little on the opposite party? And both
by their pens and suffrings testified against the
Baptisme of Infants: as Morton, with some o∣thers
contemporary; the Ministers of Transyl∣vania:
and since of later years, Blackwell,
Tombes, Cornwall, Fisher, Lamb Senior,
Lamb, Junior, Writer, Haggar, with many o∣thers,

who will not be offended because they are
not named? Have the Protestants of late said
any thing more then the Papists before them? Or
will this Book tell us one thing more then either
Protestant or Papist, hath not formerly Decla∣red?
On the other hand, what can be said more effect∣ually
to prove the Baptisme of Infants to bear an
humane stamp, and superscription, and not Di∣vine,
then hath been said over, and again?
What need then of this Book?
Patience good Reader, and know it is nei∣ther
any conceit of the impotency of those that
have written before, or of the excellency of any
thing herein contained, above what hath been be∣fore
written; that hath occasioned me to shew this
to the world: but that the importunity of friends
might be satisfied, and the mouths of lying ad∣versaries
might be stopped, that they may be sha∣med
out of those slanderous reports, whereof they
have been coyners. Thou hast here the relat