Micrographia, or, Some physiological descriptions of minute bodies made by magnifying glasses with observations and inquiries thereupon / by R. Hooke ...


By the Council of the ROYAL SOCIETY of London for Improving of Natural Knowledge.
Ordered, That the Book written by Robert Hooke, M.A. Fellow of this Society, Entituled, Micrographia, or some Physiological Descriptions of Minute Bodies, made by Magnifying Glasses, with Observations and Inquiries thereupon, Be printed by John Martyn, and James Allestry, Printers to the said Society.
BROUNCKER. P.R.S.Novem. 23. 1664.MICROGRAPHIA: OR SOME Physiological Descriptions OF MINUTE BODIES MADE BY MAGNIFYING GLASSES WITH OBSERVATIONS and INQUIRIES thereupon.
By R. HOOKE, Fellow of the ROYAL SOCIETY.
Non possis oculo quantum contendere Linceus, Non tamen idcirco contemnas Lippus inungi. Horat. Ep. lib. 1.
LONDON, Printed by Io. Martyn, and Ia. Allestry, Printers to the ROYAL SOCIETY, and are to be sold at their Shop at the Bell in S. Paul's Church-yard. M DC LX V.
TO THE KING.SIR,I Do here most humbly lay this small Present at Your Majesties Royal feet. And though it comes accompa∣ny'd with two disadvantages, the meanness of the Author, and of the Subject; yet in both I am incouraged by the greatness of your Mercy and your Knowledge. By the one I am taught, that you can
forgive the most presumptuous Offendors: And by the other, that you will not e∣steem the least work of Nature, or Art, unworthy your Observation. Amidst the many felicities that have accompani'd your Majesties happy Restauration and Government, it is none of the least consi∣derable, that Philosophy and Experimental Learning have prosper'd under your Royal Patronage. And as the calm prosperity of your Reign has given us the leisure to follow these Studies of quiet and re∣tirement, so it is just, that the Fruits of them should, by way of acknowledge∣ment, be return'd to your Majesty. There are, Sir, several other of your Subjects, of your Royal Society, now busie about Nobler matters: The Im∣provement of Manufactures and Agricul∣ture, the Increase of Commerce, the Ad∣vantage of Navigation: In all which they are assisted by your Majesties Incou∣ragement and Example. Amidst all those
greater Designs, I here presume to bring in that which is more proportionable to the smalness of my Abilities, and to offer some of the least of all visible things, to that Mighty King, that has esta∣blisht an Empire over the best of all In∣visible things of this World, the Minds of Men.
Your Majesties most humble and most obedient Subject and Servant, ROBERT HOOKE.TO THE ROYAL SOCIETY.AFter my Address to our Great Founder and Pa∣tron, I could not but think my self oblig'd, in consideration of those many Ingagements you have laid upon me, to offer these my poor Labours to this MOST ILLU∣STRIOUS ASSEMBLY. YOU have been pleas'd formerly to accept of these rude Draughts. I have since added to them some Descriptions, and some Conjectures of my own. And therefore, toge