A sermon preached before the Queen at White-Hall, March the 1st, 1690/1 by the Right Reverend Father in God Edward, Lord Bishop of Worcester.


A
SERMON
Preached before the
QUEEN
AT
WHITE-HALL,
March the 1st. 1690/1. By the Right Reverend Father in GOD,
EDWARD Lord Bishop of Worcester. Published by Her Majesties Special Command.
LONDON,
Printed for Henry Mortlock at the Phoenix in
St. Paul's Church-Yard. 1691.
A
SERMON
Preached before the
QUEEN
At WHITE-HALL,
March the 1st. 1690/1.S. LUKE VI. 46.And why call ye me Lord, Lord, and do
not the things which I say?THese few Words contain in them a
smart and serious Expostulation of our
Blessed Saviour, with such who pro∣fessed
great Kindness to him in their Words,
but shew'd no Regard to his Commands. They
owned him to be the Messias, and depended
upon him for their Happiness, and were willing

enough to be known to be his Disciples and
Followers, but yet his Doctrine made little
Impression on their Minds, and scarce any Al∣teration
in the Course of their Lives. They
loved to be where Christ was, to hear his
Doctrine, to see his Miracles, to observe his
Conversation, to admire what he did and said;
but herein lay the whole of their Religion;
for although they named the name of Christ, and
it may be rejoyced and glory'd in it, yet they
did not depart from iniquity. Now, considering
the Circumstances of that time, this seems to
have been an unaccountable kind of Hypocrisie.
For their calling Christ Lord, Lord, spoiled their
Interest in this World; and not doing what he
said, debarr'd, them from the hopes of Happi∣ness
by him in another. For, if they own'd him
to be their Lord, they were bound to believe
him in what he declared; and there is nothing
he doth more expresly warn men of than ho∣ping
to be saved by him without obeying his
Commands.Not every one that saith unto me
Lord, Lord, shall enter into the Kingdom of Hea∣ven,
but he that doth the Will of my Father which
is in Heaven. Which is shorter expressed, but
to the same purpose here by S. Luke; And why
call ye me Lord, Lord, and do not the things which

I say? As though he had said to them,
It is in vain to think to please and flatter me
with your Words, when your Actions are
disagreeable to them. To call me Lord, Lord,
is to own my Authority in commanding you;
but to do this, and yet wilfully to disobey
me, is to shew your Hypocrisie and Folly to∣gether.
Which Expostulation of Christ, was not con∣fined
to that time, no more than his Com∣mands
were; but it hath always the same
Force, where Persons are guilty of the same
Folly. For, although now none can plead for
themselves, as they did,We have eaten and drank
in thy presence, and thou hast taught in our streets;
yet we may build as presumptuous hopes up∣on
Privileges of another kind, which may
be as ineffectual to our Salvation, as these were
when Christ said to those very Persons,Depart
from me all ye workers of iniquity. We all bear
the Name of Christ, and own his Doctrine, and
partake of his