A learned, vsefull and seasonable discovrse concerning the Chvrch of England, and the Chvrch of Rome addressed by way of letter to M. St. Iohn, a Romish priest / by that eminent author and worthy patriot, Dr. John Bastwick, now prisoner under the popish tyranny at Yorke.


A LEARNED Vsefull and SEASONABLE DISCOVRSE Concerning The CHVRCH of ENGLAND, And The CHVRCH of ROME.
Addressed By way of Letter to M. St. IOHN, a ROMISH PRIEST, By that Eminent Author and worthy Patriot, Dr. JOHN BASTWICK, Now PRISONER under the POPISH Tyranny at YORKE.
Imprimatur, JA. CRANFORD.
LONDON, Printed for John Wright, Junior, at his Shop at the upper end of the Old-Bailey. 1643.
A Learned, Vsefull, and Seasonable Discourse, concerning the Church of ENGLAND, and the Church of ROME. To the most accomplisht and learned, Mr. St. JOHN.Most worthy Sir,FAme doth not ever delude us. She proclaimes you not onely for a Scholler, but celebrates you as a profound Divine and Phi∣losopher. It seemes yet to me, by her sparing Relation, that she was loth to offend your Modesty. For, after our acquaintaince, you appear'd to me far greater then your Fame. Verily, you have so temper'd Excellent Learning, with sweet Conversa∣tion, that your Demerits exceed the praises even of an eloquent Lover.
This rare Elogy is the more illustrious in you, as tis most seldome to be found in Others of your Rank and Roman profession: (to deale freely with you, as your Curtesie invites me.)
Being both of us cast into the same Prison, but for different Causes, you for defending the Pope, I for impugning him; I confesse, that (at first) I purposly shun'd your Acquaintaince; not in hate to your Person, but out of feare of your Party, which after some private Colloquies had wrong'd me and the Truth, dearer to me then my selfe: reporting, that the Defenders of our Re∣ligion were unlearned and dishonest: and absurdly caluminating our Doctrin, as false and Hereticall. It happened likewise, that after we had casually met to∣gether in company, (but had then no leisure to enter into any Dispute) it was bruited abroad, (I know not by whom) that being challeng'd by you to a Scholasticall Combat, I had cowardly declin'd it. As my credit is not so weak, to be wounded with such silly Rumors, so I hold it not fit to let them passe without Comptroll. Your Conference (indeed) I refus'd, for this reason, be∣cause I conceiv'd, there was small hope to win you to our fide, by any evi∣dence

of Truth, being such an old Souldier of the Popes, and now growne a∣ged and gray hair'd in Popery. But when (after) I had learnd by experience, that you were a Gent. of singular Ingenuity and Candor, and perceiv'd like∣wise how affectionately you lov'd me, and how zealous you were of my Soules-health: I began to be much inflamed with desire of your Society. For, Civility and Curtesie is of so winning a nature, that it is a stronger Allure∣ment then the strongest Enchantment. You were often heard to say, that you would give any thing to proc