Humble motiues for association to maintaine religion established Published as an antidote against the pestilent treatises of secular priests.



HVMBLE
MOTIVES
FOR ASSOCIATION
TO MAINTAINE RELIGI∣ON
ESTABLISHED.
Published as an antidote against the pestilent
treatises of secular Priests.
Ʋirtus vnita valet.
IMPRINTED 1601.







A petition to the Queene, for
assotiation in religion.There be as seemeth vnto me (Most grati∣ous
Soueraigne) by the law of God, by
the law of nature, and by the law of nations,
3 thinges in duety to be exhibited by the sub¦iectes
to the magistrat, viz. Honor, Obedi∣ence,
and Defence. For the magistrats, (as
they are rightly termed by Homer) the Guides
Leaders, and Norishers of the people. The are, as
Plato calleth them) Sauiours Keepers & Pre∣seruers
of the people, They are as Aristotle saith
aliuyugc law, and the law▪ without them a •
dumbe and dead magistracy. So that the magi¦strat
beinge the life of the law, & the law the
life of the common wealth, in the safetie of
the magistrat must needes consist the safetie
of the common wealth. This seemes to me
to haue bene the cause, that the comon lawes
of this realme, haue ordained greiuous pu¦nishments
for such as should indaunger the
liues of principall magistrats. A• 25. Fdw. 3.
It is layed downe, that if a man slaye the L.
Chauncellor, L. Treaserer, Iustices of either
bench, Iustices in Oyer, Iustices of assise, or
Iustices assigned to heere and determine, be¦inge
in there place doinge their, office, that
such offence is Treason. If then theire hath

bene and ought to be so great care and pro¦uidene
for the preseruation and safetie of
these inferiour magistrates in respect, how
much more should their be in the establish∣ing
of the safetie and securitie of the superi∣our
power and most supreame magistracie,
from whose throne and estat all other au∣thorities
are deriued, and by whose priuatiō
they be all extinguished. Such is the cause
we now deale with, even the defence, preser¦uation,
and safetie, of your most excellent
maiestie: A princes of such perelesnes and
singularity, as meriteth no lesse to be regard¦ed
of all men for priuat singularitye, than
honored for publike function. For if the
force and strength of vertue be such, that
the onlye shewe and shadow of it hath that
meruelous and magneticall attraction, that
it draweth vnto it the hartes and mindes of
infinite people, as plainlye appeareth in the
auntient nobles both Greekes & Romaines
who wantinge the true knowledge of God
from whose divine maiestie all vertues doe
proceed as from the fountaine and to whose
glory they ought all to be directed as to the
•mall scope, and had in them rather forme
and figure then any matter of substance of
true vertue: what in explicable effects doth

pure, perfect, and sincere vertue bringe to
passe, beinge adorned with the true know∣ledge
of God, setled in a seat most royall in
the eyes and sight of all nations to the won∣der
and admiration of the world, to the sin∣gular
benef