An epitaph vpon the death of the honorable, syr Edward Saunders Knight, Lorde cheefe Baron of the Exchequer, who dyed the. 19. of Nouember. 1576


An Epitaph vpon the death of the honorable, syr Edward Saunders
Knight, Lorde cheefe Baron of the Exchequer, who dyed the .19. of Nouember. 1576.YOU Muses weare your mourning weedes, strike on the fatal Drome,
Sounde Triton out the Trumpe of Fame, in spite of Parcas dome:
Distyll Parnassus pleasant droppes, possesse Pierides plase,
Apollo helpe with dolefull tune, to wayle this wofull case.
Wring hard your handes, wayle on your losse, lament the fate that fell,
With sobbes and sighes to Saunders say, oh Saunders nowe farewell.
Whom Pbaebus fed with Pallas pappe, as one of Sibils seede,
Loe here where Death did rest his corpes, the vermines foule to feede:
Whom Impes of Ioue with Nectar sweete, long in Libetbres noursht,
Behold howe dreadfull Death him brought, to that whence he came first.
Lycurgus he for learned lawes, Rhadamanthus race that ranne,
Another Nestor for aduise, Zaleucus fame that wanne.
A Damon deare vnto his freend, in faith like Phocion found,
A Cato that could counsell geue, to prince a subiect sound:
Not Athens for their Solon sage, not Rome for Numa waile,
As we for Saunders death haue cause, in flooddes of teares to saile.
Not Sparta card for Chilos death, ne proud Prienna prest,
To weepe for Bias as we wayle, our Saunders late possest.
His learned pathes his talentes rare, so nowe by Death appeares,
As he that Salomon sought to serue, in prime and youthfull yeares,
His counsell sadde, his rules, his lawes, in countrey soyle so wrought,
As though in Cuma he had been, of sage Sibilla taught:
His vertuous life was such I say, as Uertue did embrace,
By Uertue taught in vertuous schoole, to growe in vertuous race:
Might tender babes, might orphantes weake, might widowes rere the cry,
The sound thereof should pearce the cloudes, to skale the empire sky:
To bidde the goddes to battel bend, and to dissend in sight,
Though farre vnfit, and mates vnmeete, with mortall men to fight.
Too late (alas) we wyshe his life, to soone deceiued vs Death,
Too little witte we haue to seeke, the dead agayne to breath.
What helplesse is, must carelesse be, as Natures course dooth shewe,
For Death shall reape what life hath sowen, by Nature this we knowe:
Where is that erce Achilles fled, where is king Turnus shroude,
What is become of Priamus state, where is Periander proude:
Hector, Hanno, Hanibal, dead, Pompei, Pirrhus spild,
Scipio, Cirus, Caesar slayne, and Alexander kild.
So long there Fortune fast dyd floe, and charged Fame to sound,
Tyll frowning Fortune foyld by fate, which fawning Fortune found:
Shun Fortunes feares, shake Fortune of, to none is Fortune sound,
Sith none may say of Fortune so, I Fortune faithfull found.
Beholde where Fortune flowed so fast, and fauoured Saunders lure,
Tyl fickle Fortune false agayne, did Saunders death procure.
Lo clothed could in cloddes of clay, in drossy dust r