An examination of Dr. Woodward's account of the deluge, &c. with a comparison between Steno's philosophy and the doctor's, in the case of marine bodies dug out of the earth / by J.A. ... ; with a letter to the author concerning an abstract of Agostino Scilla's book on the same subject, printed in the philosophical transactions by W.W. ...


AN EXAMINATION OF Dr. WOODWARD's Account of the Deluge, &c.
With a Comparison between STENO'S Philosophy and the DOCTOR's, in the Case of Marine Bodies dug out of the Earth.
By J. A. M. D.
WITH A LETTER to the Author CONCERNING An ABSTRACT Of AGOSTINO SCILLA's Book on the same Subject, Printed in the Philosophical Transactions.
By W. W. F. R. S.
London: Printed for C. Bateman in Pater-noster-row. 1697.
THE PREFACE.I Shall make no Apology for the Remarks, since the unquestionable Liberties of the Common-Wealth of Learning allow me the same Priviledg of examining, as they do the Doctor of proposing his Hypothesis; and I am so far from having given the Doctor any just cause of Offence, that I shall rather be∣lieve I deserve his Thanks; for since he has set up his Essay as the Model of a larger Structure, he ought to be suppos'd rather to invite than discourage those who may point at any Faults which afterwards it may be too late to correct: The Citations out of Dr. Woodwardand Steno may seem tedious, but they were necessary; for after such heavy and unjust Charges of Mis-represent∣ing, which had appear'd in some Mat∣ters relating to this Controversie, I durst not venture out of the beaten Road of Verbal Quotation. After I had finish'd these few Remarks, my Worthy Friend Mr. Wotton, well known for his Paral∣lel of Ancient and Modern Learning, sent me a Vindication of his Account of Agostino Scilla, with a Permission to publish it, tho I wish he had allowed me to scratch out some things, which have no other ground than his Civility.
ERRATA.PReface, l. 2. r. following Remarks; p. 20. l. x. powder r. powder'd; p. 23. l. 13.132, r. 232; p. 24. l. 26. r. If I; p. 25. l. 8. vegetable, r. vegetative; page 30. l. 29. so inconsistent, r. inconsistent.
AN EXAMINATION OF Dr WOODWARD's ACCOUNT OF THE DELUGE, &c.THAT the Reader may have a true Notion of Dr. Woodward's History of the Deluge, he may take the following Account, in his own Words.
1. That at the Time of the Deluge, the Water of the Ocean was first born forth upon the Earth; that it was immedi∣ately
succeeded by that of the Abyss, which likewise was brought out upon the face of the Globe. How this Water was rais'd at the Deluge? by what Issues or Out-lets it came forth? what succeeded into the room of it while absent? the Author says he will tell us in his larger Work.
2. That the whole Terrestrial Globe was taken all to pieces, and dissolv'd at the Deluge; the Particles of Stone, Mar∣ble, and all other solid Fossils dissever'd; their constituent Corpuscles all disjoin'd; their Cohesion perfectly ceasing; that the said Corpuscles of those solid Fossils, to gether wi