Witt against wisdom, or, A panegyrick upon folly penn'd in Latin by Desiderius Erasmus ; render'd into English.


WITT against WISDOM. OR A PANEGYRICK UPON FOLLY▪
Penn'd in Latin by DESIDERIUS ERASMUS, Render'd into English.
—Saepe jocum vestri movêre tumultus
OXFORD. Printed by L Lichfield, Printer to the University, for Anthony Stephens, Bookseller near the Theater. 1683.
TO THE READER.THat there cannot be two more for∣tunate properties, than to have a little of the Fool, and not too much of the Knave, was an observation of Him, who (if the Servant's extortion reflect not on the Master's integrity, or judgment) was neither of Both; the learned Lord Bacon. What that collecting Politician did coyly remark, is here in a greater advance more positively made good, namely, That not only Fortune, but, what is more comprehen∣sive, Happiness in all respects, does devout∣ly attend such, as whom either Nature, or Distemper hath first moulded, or afterward corrupted into Fools, and Madmen. And certainly if the Absence of Grief, the Re∣prieve from Care, the Unrelenting at Dis∣appointments, and such like well esteem'd Accidents, do any way pertain to (as per∣haps in the Philosophy of bare Nature they wholly make up) the Notion of Happiness,
the easie Result of each man's Experience, as well as the Induction of the following Particulars, will abundantly convince, That alway Anxiety, and Forecast, and not seldom Discontent, and Regret, being Handmaids to the Wise, while an immoveable compla∣cency is a constant Guest to the Fool, this last is as much more happy, as he is less har∣rass'd, less perplex'd, less sollicitous, than the other. Beside, if (what was formerly probable, and is of late ingeniously attemp∣ted to be improved to an higher degree of credibility) a Reality of Happiness during the Conceit equally results from an Ima∣ginary, as a Real Object, and what's Aiery, and Phantastick in the Apprehension, may be firm, and solid in the Fruition; I see no great reason, why a Fool's Bliss should not, without a figure, be a Paradise in the propriety of the word, since it is a State, wherein neither Desire outstrips Enjoy∣ment, nor Fear of Deprivation damps the comfort of a present Possession.
But after All, there is a wide difference betwixt what is strictly True, and what's finely Plausible; and therefore how smooth∣ly soever it may sound, That the being possess'd of all we do but suppose Good, is

the commencing all we can imagine Happy, (which by the by were it unconditionately granted, would infer, that the degenera∣ting into Brutes, was an approach to the becoming Gods) yet it is undeniably expe∣rienced, that this Happiness of Fools will never be made so much the opinion of Others, as it is the Faith of Themselves. This Pa∣radox therefore, we may well presume, was not the sole aim of the Author, who from principles of Self-interest was obliged not to be in earnest, when he declaims against his own accomplishments of Wit, Learning, and Wisdom, and at the