Irelands advocate: or, A sermon preached upon Novem. 14, 1641. to promote the contributions by way of lending, for the present reliefe of the Protestants party in Ireland. In the parrish church of St. Stephens Coleman Street London, by the pastor there.


IRELANDS ADVOCATE: OR, A SERMON PREACHED VPON Novem. 14, 1641. to promote the con∣tributions by way of lending, for the present reliefe of the PROTESTANTS party in IRELAND. In the Parish CHURCH of St. STEPHENS Coleman street LONDON, by the PASTOR there.
JUDGES 5. 23.Curse yee Meroz (said the Angell of the LORD) curse yee bitterly the Inhabitants thereof; because they came not out to the helpe of the LORD, to the helpe of the LORD against the mighty.
But who so hath this worlds goods and seeth his Brother hath need, and shutteth up his bowells of compassion from him, how dwelleth the love of God in him?
LONDON, Printed for WILLIAM LARNAR, and are to be sold at his Shop, at the signe of the Golden Anchor, neere Paules-Chaine. 1641.
IRELANDS ADVOCATE: OR, A SERMON preached upon Novem. 14. 1641. to promote the con∣tributions by way of lending, for the present reliefe of the Protestant party in IRELAND.1 JOHN 3. 16.Therefore we ought to lay downe our lives for the Brethren.THE sad and most deplorable con∣dition of our Brethren, professors of the same Faith and Religion with us, in the Kingdome of Ire∣land, as it hath very lately bin re∣presented by Letters from thence unto us, is the occasion of turning me aside (for the present) from that Scripture that I had intended to have proceeded

with, and of casting me upon this; that so, as wee have a great opportunity from Hel, we may have ano∣ther from Heaven also, to excite and stirre you up, to quit your selves like the Children of GOD, and the redeemed of JESUS CHRIST, by drawing out the bowels of your compassions readily and freely unto those, that are, or ought to be as deare to you, as your selves, and your owne Soules. The Author of this Epistle, was that Disciple and Apostle whom Christ loved, that is, loved in speciall manner above his fellowes: who (it seemes) as he received abun∣dantly of the sweet fruites and expressions of this af∣fection in GOD, and in his Lord and Master JESUS CHRIST towards him, so did he abound propor∣tionably in his reciprocall affection towards GOD and JESUS CHRIST againe: the fire burned in vehemencie and strength of heate according to the pile of wood that was layd upon it. And thus know∣ing by a double experience, the infinite sweetnesse and preciousnesse of this affection: he labours more then all the rest of the Apostles, to propa∣gate and multiplie it in the hearts of the Chil∣dren of GOD, both towards GOD, and towards one another. To passe by all other passages in his writings, wherein hee labours to promote the cause and Kingdome of this heavenly affecti∣on, in and neere about the Scripture read unto you, hee makes out with a high hand, and with many important arguments, to kindle this fire in the hearts of men,