A consolation for our grammar schooles: or, a faithfull and most comfortable incouragement, for laying of a sure foundation of all good learning in our schooles, and for prosperous building thereupon More specially for all those of the inferiour sort, and all ruder countries and places; namely, for Ireland, Wales, Virginia, with the Sommer Ilands, and for their more speedie attaining of our English tongue by the same labour, that all may speake one and the same language. ...


A
CONSOLATION
FOR OVR GRAMMAR
SCHOOLES:
OR,
A faithfull and most comfortable in∣couragement,
for laying of a sure foundation
of all good Learning in our Schooles, and
for prosperous building thereupon.
More specially for all those of the inferiour
sort, and all ruder countries and places; namely,
for Ireland, Wales, Virginia, with the Sommer
Ilands, and for their more speedie attaining of our
English tongue by the same labour, that all
may speake one and the same
Language.
And withall, for the helping of all such as are d•∣sirous
speedilie to recouer that which they had formerlie
got in the Grammar Schooles; and to proceed aright
therein, for the perpetuall benefit of these our
Nations, and of the Churches
of Christ.
LONDON,
Printed by RICHARD FIELD for THOMAS MAN▪
dwelling in Pater noster Row, at the Signe
of the Talbot. 1622.
¶To the Right Honourable his
Maiesties Lord Deputy of Ireland,
and to the right Honourable the Lord Pre∣sident
and Lord Lieutenant of WALES, and the
Principalitie thereof, the Gouernours of the Iles
of GERNSEY and IERNSEY; and to the right
Honourable and right Worshipfull, the Treasurer,
Councell and Company for VIRGINIA, and of
the Sommer Ilands; and to all other Gouernours
within his Maiesties dominions, to whom the
charge and care of Schooles; namely, those of the
inferiour sort, are assigned: with all true fauourers of
good Learning, who vnfainedly wish the perpetu∣all
flourishing of the Church of God, and of their
natiue Countrey, I. B. wisheth all happinesse in
Christ eternally.AFter many thoughts to whom I
should more particularly dedicate
this my hoped Consolation, (right
Honourable able and right Worship∣full,)
the Lord in his wisedome
and mercie (I trust) directed me
vnto your selues, as those whom it doth in a peculiar
manner concerne. That like as he hath appointed you

to these places, so ye may euer haue before your eies, the
speciall ends for which he hath assigned them to your
trust, & for which you must be answerable to his hea∣uenly
Maiesty. The first and chiefe whereof (as I con∣ceiue)
is this, That his pure religion, honour, and true
worship, may be set vp, and aduaunced in them;
the next, that the wealth and sauing of all his poore
people in those places, both of their soules and bodies,
may be by you procured, so farre as in your power
shall lie. And these things to be effected principally,
by a learned, holie, and faithfull Ministerie, protected
and assisted by a godlie Magistracie, and by propaga∣ting
and spreading all good le