Tessaradelphus, or The four brothers. The qualities of whom are contayned in this old riddle. Foure bretheren were bred at once without flesh, bloud, or bones. One with a beard, but two had none, the fourth had but halfe one. Collected and translated, by Thomas Harrab.


Tessaradelphus, OR The foure Brothers.
The qualities of whom are contayned in this old Riddle.
Foure bretheren were bred at once
Without flesh, bloud, or bones.
One with a beard, but two had none,
The fourth had but halfe one.
Collected and translated. By THOMAS HARRAR.
permissu superiorum, 1616.
To the Reader.REader, I hauing trauailed in diuers parts of the Christi∣an world, chiefelie to take a diligent viewe of the sun∣dry sectes (which some call Relgions) vvhich are nowe in these parts thereof; and finding that to one obiecting their disagreements one with another, they presently answere: that they agree all in fundamentall pointes, although they dissent in some matters, which they say, appertaine not to faith. Knowing by experience this answere to be most false, I thought it worth the labour to sette before thine eyes very briefly, yet plainly, the foure Principall Sects, which are ey∣ther allowed, or permitted in some countries here in Europe; out of which, the multitude of petite Sects issue, to the end thou mayest see the irreconciliable differences amongst them. And when thou hast dilligently considered them, I hope thou wilt say of them, that recitasse est confutasse, the rehearsing of them is the confuting of them. They are ob∣scurely comprehended in the Ridle aforesaide, for they were all bredde with Martin Luther, although they came forth some of them after, as thou shalt see in this litle Treatise. I call them brothers, as they (partly forced by Catholikes, and partely to deceaue the ignorant) doe sometimes stile them∣selues, although in their writings they condemne one ano∣ther to the pit of Hell. Thou wouldest know who these foure be: Marry Lutheranisine, Caluinisme, Anabaptisme, and Anglianisme. Some wil perhaps say, that Religions or Sects should rather be termed sisters, because they are in the latine tongue of the feminine gender; but I answere, that Sects and Schismes taking their denomination of their Authours, who were men, may be well of the masculine gender, I call the religion of England Anglianisme, because it among the rest hath no one especiall Authour, but is sette forch by the Prince, and Parliament. The same Religion is now recea∣ued
in Scotland, because the King is one and the same of both Kingdomes, as also of Ireland, and other Isles. These foure brothers (as I terme them) are without flesh, bloud, or bone, because indeed there is no substance at all, or sappe of religion, but certaine shadowes and shewes in them, as thou mayest see in the sequell. One of them hath a beard, that is, some seemley face of a man; I meane ceremonies of Religion, as Lutheranisme hath, and two, to wit, Calui∣nisme, and Anabaptisme, no beardes at all, except here and t