The tryal of Nathaniel Thompson, William Pain, and John Farwell upon an information exhibited by the Kings Attorney General against them, for writing, printing and publishing libels, by way of letters and other prints, reflecting upon the justice of the nation, in the proceedings against the murderers of Sir Edmond-bvry Godfrey : at Guild-hal on Tuesday June the 20th, 1682, where after a full hearing they were convicted : together with an accompt of several affidavits read in His Majesties Court of Kings Bench and other matters at the time of their receiving sentence : to which is added by way of appendix, several other affidavits which further confirm the testimony of Mr. Prance, given upon the tryal of Green, Berry and Hill about that murder, with some observations touching the said Thompson, Farwell and Pain.


I Do appoint Thomas Simmons to Print the Trial
of Nathaniel Thompson, William Pain, and
John Farwell, and that no others presume to Print
the same.
July the 8th. 1682.FR. PEMBERTON.THE
TRYAL
OF
Nathaniel Thompson,
William Pain,
AND
John Farwell.
Upon an Information exhibited by the Kings Attorny
General against them, for Writing, Printing and Pub∣lishing
Libels, by way of Letters and other Prints,
reflecting upon the Justice of the Nation, in
the Proceedings against the Murderers
OF
Sir EDMOND-BƲRY GODFREY.
At Guild-hal on Tuesday June the 20th. 1682. Where
after a full hearing they were Convicted.
Together with an accompt of several AFFIDAVITS
read in His Majesties Court of KINGS BENCH
and other matters at the time of their receiving SEN∣TENCE.
To which is added by way of Appendix,
Several other Affidavits which further confirm the Testi∣mony
of Mr. Prance, given upon the Tryal of Green,
Berry and Hill about that Murder, with some Obser∣vations
touching the said Thompson, Farwell and Pain.
LONDON,
Printed for Thomas Simmons at the Princes Arms in Lud∣gate
Street, 1682.
THE
TRYAL
OF
Nathaniel Thompson,
William Pain,
AND
John Farwell.Trinity Term, XXXIV. Caroli Secundi Regis.On Tuesday the 20th. of June 1682, before the Right Ho∣nourable
Sir Francis Pemberton, Lord Chief Justice of His
Majesties Court of Kings Bench, by Nisi prius in the Guild-Hall
of the City of London, came on the Tryals of Natha∣niel
Thompson, William Pain, and John Farwel, upon an In∣formation
brought against them for several Trespasses and Mis∣demeanours
in Writing, Printing, and Publishing Letters Im∣porting
that Sir Edmondbury Godfrey murdered himself,
as also for several Falsities relating to the said matter Printed
in several Papers, called the Loyal Protestant Intelligence.
And the Jurors Names, were as follow,
Jur.Peter Houblon.John Ellis.William Barret.Joshua Brooks.Gervas Byfield.Jonathan Lee.George Widdowes.William Sambrooke.William Jacomb.John Delmee.Samuel Bayly.Samuel Howard.
The INFORMATION was in the Attorney Gene∣ral's
name.FOR that in Hillery Term, in the 30th. and 31th. years of this Kings
Reign, in the Court of Kings Bench at Westminster, by a Jury