Addresses to old men, and young men, and little children. In three discourses ... To which may be added, a short scriptural catechism, accommodated unto their capacities. / By Cotton Mather.


ADDRESSES to OLD MEN, and YOUNG MEN, and LITTLE CHILDREN.In Three DISCOURSES
I. The OLD MANS Honour; or, The Hoary Head found in the way of Righteousness.
A Discourse Recommending unto OLD MEN, A Saving Acquaintance with the Lord JESUS CHRIST.
II. The YOUNG MAN'S Glory; or, a Wreath of Graces for the Head of Youth.
A Discourse Recommending unto YOUNG MEN A blessed Victory over the Devil.
III. The LITTLE CHILDS Lesson; Or, A Chi•• wise unto Salvation.
A Discourse instructing and inviting LITTLE CHILDREN to the Exercises of Early 〈◊〉.
To which may be added, A short Scriptural Cate|chism, accommodated unto their Capacities.
By COTTON MATHER.
Boston: Printed by R. Pierce, for Nicholas •••|tolph, at the Corner Shop, next to Gut|teridge's Coffee-House. 1690.
SEnum est Prophetare. Etiamsi videas aliquan|do Juvenem Prophetantem, non dubites de eo dicere, si secundum Interiorem Hominem Senu-Propterea est Propheta.Orig Hom. in Ps 36.
De Verbo Divino, Capit hic Infans, Panem Rubustior AEtas, 〈…〉Optato curva Senecta cibo.
The Dedication of The Old Mans Honour.To my Honoured, and Worthy Friend, Major JOHN RICHARDS.Sir,WEre there nothing else to command my Regards for you, besides the Old Age, which your Out-living of Threescore Winters has brought you to the Border• of, That were enough to give you a room in my Esteem and Reverence, and Veneration. I cannot but approve the care of the Greek Language, to make no more than 〈◊〉 Letters Difference between the words for Old age, and Honour; and I cannot but applaud that conditi|on of the World, whereto refers that famous Distic•• Magna fuit quondam Capitis Reverentia Cani,
In{que} suo pretio Ruga Senilis erat.
The Marks of Respect put upon Old age among Antient Lacedemonians have been the matter of 〈◊〉 pleasant and famous Histories; and the mode••. Ve|netians owe not a little of their Prosperity as well a Reputation unto the Figure which is allowed Old age among them. That people is not like  long-liv'd, among whom, Fathers and Mothers, those that have lived long, are not acknowledged; that plant whose Younger Branches put a st••ght 〈◊〉 the Elder, is for that cause by the Ingenious Bota••• called, Herba Impia, or a Wicked Cudweed When Old such an one, is used as a Term of Disgrace, & when Javenis vetulo non assurrexerit, I still think that I see none of the smallest among the Verbal and Real 〈◊〉 of the World. But something beside,

and beyond your meer Approaches to that Age, which will place a Silver Crown of Gray-hairs upon your Head, it is that causes me now to Dedicate unto you, the little Treatise of, The Old Mans Honour, now laid before you. 'Tis because you have, The Old Mans Honour, adorning of you; not only by having Served your People, both as a Ruler to them at home, and as an Agent for them abroad, when God gave