Instruction concerning penance and holy communion the second part fo the instruction of youth, containing the means how we may return to God by penance, and remain in his grace by the good and frequent use of the sacraments. By Charles Gobinet, Doctor of Divinity, of the house and Society of Sorbon, principal of the college of Plessis-Sorbon.


INSTRUCTION CONCERNING PENANCE AND HOLY COMMUNION; The Second Part OF THE Instruction of YOUTH, Containing the Means how we may re∣turn to God by Penance, and remain in his Grace by the good and frequent use of the Sacraments.
By CHARLES GOBINET, Doctor of Divinity, of the House and Society of SOR∣BON, Principal of the College of PLES∣SIS-SORBON.
The Last Edition in French, now render'd into English.
LONDON, Printed by J. B. and are to be Sold by Mathew Turner, at the Lamb in High Holborn, and John Tootell, at Mr. Palmers the Bookbinder in Sil∣verstreet in Bloomsbury: Together with the First Part of the Instruction of Youth in Chri∣stian Piety, 1689.
〈1 page duplicate〉A DEDICATORY PRAYER TO OUR LORD JESƲS CHRIST.MY Lord and my God, permit me also to consecrate this Second Instruction to thee, and lay it at the foot of thy Cross, to which I invite thy Children, and beg the favour of thy Benediction. That which thou hast been pleased to bestow upon the First I made, gives me hopes that thou hast yet reserv'd a blessing for this Second; and that in respect of the things therein contained, which are the Sacraments, thy own work, thou wilt not fail to bless it. Its whole design is to instruct thy Chil∣dren, & to teach them to frequent and make good use of the Sacraments: Sacraments, which with so much Charity thou hast instituted, that there∣by thou mightest conferr thy Grace upon us. We see to our great grief, that they have not that esteem, which is due to them; and that for want of the knowledge of their worth and gran∣dure, and the advantage which from thence a∣rises to us, many either neglect to approach un∣to them, or at least do not always take care to provide themselves with convenient dispositions
when they come. Thou presentest them with holy Penance, that thereby they may be freed from the Slavery of their Sins; but it often hap∣pens, that like the Israelites in the Aegyptian Bon∣dage, they choose rather to continue captives as before, then to accept thy offer. Thou bestowest upon them Celestial food for their nourishment, and to strengthen them, whom once thou hast received into thy Grace; but by reason they are ignorant of the excellence of the gift, they either refuse or neglect to take it, and permit themselves Spiritually to be starv'd in the De∣sart of this Mortal Life. This Bread of Angels agrees not with their tast, so deprav'd it is, that they preferr the Onions of Aegypt before this Heavenly Manna. Divine Jesus, open their eyes, who live thus contented in their misery. Make them feel the weight of their Chains; make them sensible of the danger of that Servitude, wherein they are detained by