A proposal for erecting a general bank which may be fitly called the Land Bank of England.


A PROPOSAL For Erecting a GENERAL BANK: Which may be fitly called the LAND BANK of ENGLAND.It is humbly Proposed;1. THAT a perpetual Land Tax, of sixpence yearly in the pound, be granted by Parliament: or that such a Tax or Rent Charge be laid upon Land. Which amounting to upwards of two hundred thousand Pound per annum, will be a good Fund or Credit for this new Bank.
2. That the general Directors of this Bank (between twenty and thirty, or what other number is thought fit) be named and appointed by Parliament.
3. That this Bank be managed for the benefit and behoof of those that support it, that is, the Landholders that pay the Tax. Who are to re∣ceive it back (and the Overplus likewise, which may be five times more than the Tax) in the same proportions they paid it. And the same Officers that collected and received the Tax, may receive back and distribute the Over∣plus; with the same Allowances for their pains.
4. That London may not wholly engross this Bank: but that some part of it be shared out to six other Places. Namely, Exeter, Bristol, Shrewsbury or Ludlow, York, Newark, and lastly Norwich or Thetford or St. Edmunds-Bury.
5. That each of these particular Banks may have, for its Support and Fund, the Tax of the adjoyning Counties: that is to say; That the Bank of Exeter may have Cornwal, Devon, and Dorset. Bristol may have Somerset, Wilts, Gloucester, Monmouth, and Glamorgan. Shrewsbury (or Ludlow) may have Cheshire, Shropshire, Stafford, Worcester, Hereford, and all Wales except Glamorgan and Monmouth. York may have the whole Northern Circuit, or the six Northern Counties. Newark may have the Counties of Derby, Not∣tingham, Lincoln, Rutland, and Leicester. Norwich (or Thetford or Bury) may have Norfolk, Suffolk, and Cambridge Shire. And all the rest of Eng∣land may belong to the particular Bank of London. By which Apportion∣ment, London will have near four parts in ten of the Tax, and each of the other Places will have about one part in ten. So that if the whole Tax be two hundred thousand Pounds a year; London will have about fourscore thousand, and each of the rest about twenty thousand. None of them un∣der eighteen, nor much above two and twenty.
6. That in the general Courts of these Banks, every County within the respective Limits may have a Vote, for every hundred Pound a year which they are charged with in the Tax; the persons Voting being chosen or ap∣pointed
by the Justices of each County: And that these Persons may Vote by Proxy. Also that these general Courts may Elect the Directors of their respective Banks, from time to time.
7. That these Banks may give out their Bills, for any Summs not exceed∣ing the value of the Tax, which is their Stock or Fund: the Parliament declaring, at how many years purchase the said Tax shall be reckoned. If it be reckon'd at twenty years purchase, (as it well may be, the whole District, or all the Count