Flora's fortune The second part and finishing of the Fisher-mans tale. Containing, the strange accidentes which chaunced to Flora, and her supposed father Thirsis: also the happie meeting with her desired Cassander. By F.S.


FLORA'S FORTVNE. The second part and finishing of the Fisher∣mans Tale. Containing, The strange accidentes which chaunced to Flora, and her supposed father Thirsis: also the happie meeting with her desi∣red Cassander.
Quod graue Sabe iugum patitur ceruice magistri
Hoc graue lene iugum mitis Apollo facit.
By F. S.
Imprinted at London by Richard Ihones, at the signe of the Rose and Crowne, neere to S. Andrewes Church in Holborne. 1595
To the Worshipful, his verie good friend, M. Francis Tresham, sonne and heire to to the renowned and vertuous Knight, Sir Tho∣mas Tresham, Francis Sabie wisheth full fruition of mortall and im∣mortall foelicite.THE report and consideration (Right Worship∣full of your exceeding courtesie, the great and immerited friendship, which I and my parentes haue, and do daylie find at the handes of that re∣nowned and vertuous Knight, your Father, doe embolden mee to present vnto your Worship this my vnpollished Poeme, from which otherwise, the imbecilitie of my skill in this diuine arte, and rudenesse of these my lines, doe alto∣gether dehort me. Which if your Worship (serious affairs ended) shall vouchsafe to cast a fauourable glaunce vpon, and therein shall find any part or parcell pleasing to your vertu∣ous mind, I shall esteeme my trauell as much worth, as had it otherwise beene spent, in winning the golden Apples of Hisperia, or in fetching precious Iems from the chrystall lake of the Pearl-flowing Tagus. The historie (I praesume) you shall finde delightfull; the matter not offensiue to anie, only my skill in penning it is, imbicill; and my presumption, in presenting so rude a peece of worke to so wise a Patrone, verie great: which I hope your Worship will the more bear with, and account the rather to bee pardonable, in that the fault proceedeth from a good intention and faultlesse mea∣ning.
Your Worships immoouable votarie. FRANCIS SABIE.To the Reader.TO expell (scorn-hating Reader) the accustomed tedi∣ousnes of colde winters nightes, and partlie to beguile slouth-causing sleepe, which otherwise would haue clai∣med some interest in an vnbusied braine, I tooke pen in hand, and presuming somwhat of mine owne skill, wrote the Lat• published Poeme of the Fisher-mans Tale, which of necessitie I was then abruptly constrained to breake off, both in that Cassan∣der who told the tale, could neither declare what had then chanced to Flora his Loue, nor I what would chaunce vnto him. Since which time, variable accidentes haue hapned to either of them, which newes-bearing Report hath brought vnto mino-eares, and which also thy late acceptance of the former hath encouraged me to pro∣mulgate. Whereat if squint-eied Zoylus, or splay-footed Momus shall carpe, or find fault, let them not, like angrie dogs, al to be sla