Die Mercurii, 11 Octobr. 1643. An ordinance of the Lords and Commons in Parliament assembled for the upholding the government of the Fellovvship of Merchants Adventurers of England, to the better maintenance of the trade of cloathing, and woollen manufacture of the kingdome.


Die Mercurii, 11 Octobr. 1643.AN ORDINANCE OF THE LORDS and COMMONS IN PARLIAMENT ASSEMBLED, For the upholding the Government of the Fellowship of Merchants Adventurers of England, to the better maintainance of the Trade of Cloathing, and Woollen Manufacture of the KINGDOME.FOR the better incouragement and supportation of the Fellowship of Merchant Adventurers of England, which hath beene found very service∣able and profitable unto this State; And for the better Government and regulation of Trade, especially, that ancient and great Trade of Cloathing, whereby the same will be much advanced to the common good, and be∣nefit of the people: The Lords and Commons in Parliament, doe ordaine that the said Fellowship shall continue and be a Corporation, and shall have power to levy Monies on the Members of their Corporation, and their goods, for their necessary charge and maintenance of their Government: And that no person shall Trade into those Parts, limited by their Incorporation, but such as are Free of that Corporation, upon forfeiture of their Goods. Provided, that the said Fellowship shall not exclude any person from his Freedome and admission into the said Fellowship, which shall desire it by way of redemption, if such person by their cu∣stome be capable thereof, and hath beene bred a Merchant, and shall pay one hundred pounds for the same, if he be Free, and an Inhabitant of the City of London, and Trade from that Port, or fifty pounds, if he be not Free, and no Inhabitant of the said City, and Trade not from thence; and that the faid Fellowship shall have power to imprison Members of their Com∣pany in matters of government, and to give such an oath, or oathes to them, as shall bee ap∣proved of by both Houses of Parliament. Provided, that all Rights confirmed by Act of Par∣liament, or ancient Charters, shall be hereby saved. And the said Lords and Commons doe further ordaine, That with all convenient expedition, a Bill shall be prepared in order to an Act of Parliament to be passed in this present Parliament for the further setling and full confir∣ming of the Priviledges to the said Fellowship, with such other clauses and provisions as shall be found expedient by both Houses of Parliament: This Ordinance to remaine in full force, untill a Bill or Act shall be prepared and passed, according to the intent and true meaning of this Ordinance. And it is ordered, that this Ordinance be forthwith Printed and published, that all persons concerned therein may take notice thereof, as appertaineth.
John Browne, Cler. Parliamentorum.H. Elsyng Cler. Parl. Dom. Com.