The compleat servant-maid; or, The young maidens tutor Directing them how they may fit, and qualifie themselves for any of these employments. Viz. Waiting woman, house-keeper, chamber-maid, cook-maid, under cook-maid, nursery-maid, dairy-maid, laundry-maid, house-maid, scullery-maid. Composed for the great benefit and advantage of all young maidens.


The Compleat SERVANT-MAID; OR, THE Young Maidens Tutor.
Directing them how they may fit, and qualifie themselves for any of these Employ∣ments.
Viz.Waiting-Woman,House-keeperChamber-Maid,Cook-Maid,Vnder Cook-Maid,Nursery-Maid,Dairy-Maid,Laundry-Maid,House-MaidScullery-Maid.Composed for the great benefit and advan∣tage of all young Maidens.
LONDON, Printed for T. Passinger, at the Three Bibles on London Bridge, 1677.
Licensed January, 20. 1676/7 R. L'Estrange.
〈1 page duplicate〉THE EPISTLE TO ALL Young Maidens.Sweet Hearts,
THe great desire I have for your good, advan∣tage and preferment in the world, is such that I respect

it equal with my own, I have therefore with great pains and industry composed this lit∣tle Book, as a Rich Store∣house for you, from whence you may be furnished with such excellent directions as may qualifie you for, and make you capable of serving the greatest person of Honour or Quality, or Gentleman or Gentlewoman either in City or Country: For besides those necessary directions which teaches you how to behave

and carry your self, and per∣form your duty in the several employments of Waiting-wo∣man, House-keeper, Cham∣ber-Maid, Cook-Maid, Vn∣der Cook-Maid, Nursery-Maid, Dairy-Maid, Laun∣dry-Maid, House-Maid, and Scullery-Maid. You have directions for Preserving, Conserving, and Candying, for Writing the most usual hands for Women, as Mixt Hand, Roman and Italian Hands: for Arithmetick,

as much as is necessary for your Sex: also the Art of Carving, and Distilling, with choice Receipts for Physick and Chyrurgery: for Washing and Starching of Tiffanies, Points, and La∣ces: for making of Pies, Custards, Cheesecakes and the like: also for making of Pickles and Sawces, and for dressing of Flesh, Fowl, and Fish, and for making several sorts of Creams and Sylla∣bubs.
With variety of choice Receipts for preserving the Hair, Teeth, Face, and keeping the Hands white: Also a Bill of Fare, of the most usual and proper meats for every Month in the Year. So that if you carefully and diligently peruse this Book, and observe the directions therein given, you will soon gain the Title of a Complete Servan•-maid, which may be the means of making you a good Mistress: For there

is no Sober, Honest, and Discreet man, but will make choice of one, that hath Gained the Reputation of a Good and Complete Servant, for his Wife, rather than one who can do nothing but Trick up her self fine, an• like a Bartholomew Baby• is fit for nothing else but to be looked upon.
This Consideration, wil• I hope, Stir you up to th• Attaining of these most Ex∣cellent

Qualifications, and Accomplishments. Which that you m