Oida sou ta erga. Or, the divine fore-knowledge of our blessed Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ, display'd in his epistles to the Churches Wherein is shewed (in way of paraphrase, and notes,) that the said epistles are a prophecy of the Church of Rome, from the beginning to the reformation. By W.G.


ΟΙΔΑ ΣΟΥ ΤΑ ΕΠΓΑ. Or, The Divine Fore-knowledge of our Blessed Lord and Saviour JESUS CHRIST, Display'd in his Epistles to the Churches. Wherein is shewed (in way of Paraphrase, and Notes,) That the said Epistles are a Prophecy of the Church of Rome, from the Beginning to the Reformation.By W.G.Numb. 3.Shew the things that are to come hereafter, that we may know that ye are Gods,Esay. XLI. 23.PREFACE.I Have brought such Clear Evi∣dence in my Last Paper, That the Epistles are Mystically to be Understood; and shewn such Fair Probability, That, tho' they speak, ad Literam, of the Churches of A∣sia, yet in Truth they are to be expounded of the Church of Rome; that I presume, it may now be ex∣pected, I should Proceed to the In∣terpretation of them, which if I can make good from that Hypothesis, I shall leave but little needful to be offer'd further in its behalf. Espe∣cially since it is so well known al∣ready, That this Prophecy calls al∣most no Place or Person it predicts of, by its Proper Name; and so Univer∣sally agreed on, from the XVII. Chapter, That Rome (its Church, and Empire) are the Main Subject of the Revelation. For if Rome be not the Subject of the Epistles too, but Ephesus, &c. as the Letter bears in hand; I should think it al∣together as Difficult an Undertaking, to bring them Fairly to the Church of Rome (which yet I hope, by God's Assistance, Unexceptionably to do;) as to interpret so many Verses toge∣ther, in S. Paul's Epistle to the Romans, as if it were a Prophecy of the Church of Ephesus, &c. or of some other of the most Noted Churches. Which when I see per∣form'd according to the Genuine and Received Rules of Interpretation; I shall then begin to think my Pains but ill bestow'd; and all that I have done in Prophecy, confuted with a Witness. Till then, Good Christian Reader, I commend to thy perusal, the following Exposition of our
LORD's Epistles; and hope, that by His Blessing, thou wilt find it to be a very Serious and Solid thing; and tending much to the Ad∣vancing of our Saviour's Honour; the Confirming of his Gospel; and the Edifying of his Church, in Faith, and Piety, and all Christian Vertues. Which HE vouchsafe, may be the Effect of it. The Exposition there∣fore take, as followeth.
REV. II.1. Unto the Angel (Rulers, and Inspectors, together with the other Faithful) of the Church of Ephe∣sus, (i. e. of Rome, till An. 65.) write, These things saith He, that holdeth the Seven Stars (the Mini∣sters; and, with them, his Other Faithful,) in his Right Hand, Sup∣porting them with the Credit of Miracles; who, by his Ministers, Peter, and Paul, walketh (in an Unsettled Condition) in the midst of the Seven Golden Candlesticks, the Churches