The importance of gaining and preserving the friendship of the Indians to the British interest, considered.


THE IMPORTANCE OF Gaining and Preserving THE Friendship of the INDIANS.
THE IMPORTANCE OF Gaining and Preserving THE FRIENDSHIP OF THE INDIANS TO THE British Interest, CONSIDERED.
NEW-YORK: Printed and Sold by JAMES PARKER, at the New Printing-Office, in Beaver-Street, 1751.
THE IMPORTANCE, &c.IT is agreed, I think, on all Hands, that the gaining and preserving the Friendship of the Indians to the British Interest, is of no small Importance to the Trade of Great-Britain, as well as to the Peace and Prosperity of these Colonies: And, as I have not heard of any Body, that has, as yet, attempted to put this Matter in a proper Light, I shall, with great Submission, humbly offer my Sentiments, in Hopes they may in∣duce some abler Hand to undertake the Task.
When the first Ship arrived here from Europe, the Indians it is said, were so well-pleased, that they would have her tied to a Tree, in order the better to secure her; but as Cables were subject to rot, they would have it an Iron Chain, and this to be continued into the Indian Countries, that they might be the better able to keep their Part of it clear from Rust, as we were to keep our Part. If the Indians were in Distress or Want, the Call was, as it is at this Day, to come and make clean, or renew the Covenant Chain; and the Christ∣ians on their Part, were to do the like: And accord∣ingly we have assisted them in their Wars and Wants, and they have assisted us in our Wars, and we have their Furs.

This is the original Contract and Treaty of Com∣merce with the Five Nations. And thus Things went on tolerably well for some Years, 'till the due Execu∣tion of this Treaty was committed to the Care of a Number of Commissioners, mostly Anglo-Dutch Tra∣ders in Indian Goods; who, together with a Tribe of Harpies or Handlers, their Relations, and Under∣strappers, have so abused, defrauded, and deceived those poor, innocent, well-meaning People, that this Treaty has well-nigh executed itself; so that at pre∣sent we have very few Indians left that are sincerely in our Interest, or that can be depended upon. The fatal Consequences of this Management were severely felt in many Instances last War, particularly in the Case of Saraghtoga, Schenectady, &c. which could not possibly have happened had our Indians been sincerely our Friends. And what fatal Consequences must attend a continued Neglect of Indian Affairs; more especially as the French, our natural Enemies and Competitors in every Corner of the World where we have any Con∣cern, are indefatigable in cultivating the Friendship of their own Indians, and by all Means and Arts in their Power, per fas & ne fas, endeavouring to seduce those in the British Interest; is apparent to the meanest Ca∣pacity. Murders and Desolation, upon the first Breach, is one certain Consequence; and I wish I could think this was all.
What to me is most surprizing, that, tho'