The lambe still pursuing the wolfe as may appear by the four within named letters truly duplicated and printed / by Tho. Elslyott, Armig' Arm. Conq.


THE LAMBE Still pursuing the WOLFE: As may appear by the Four within named LETTERS truly Dupli∣cated and Printed.By Tho. Elslyott, Armig’ Arm. Conq;WORTHY SIR,AS I have alwayes known you to be a worthy Patriot of the known and fundamental Lawes of this Nation, and an equall Justicier in all Civil af∣fairs, and hearing that you be Chair∣man of the Committee appointed by the Honorable Parl ament of the Common-wealth of England, upon the great businesse now in agitation betwixt Mr. Primate and Sir Arthur Haslerigge. I a mem∣ber of Jesus Christ, and of this present Common-wealth, doe civily admonish you that you be cautious how M. Prideaux, a person impeached of high treason legally,
 and Mr. Blagrave and All•n late Members of the Commit∣tee of Indempnity, and appelled for unjustice, before the Honorable Parliament, (being in their capacities neither (probi vel legales homines) by the Law of this Nation, until they have received their trials) doe come to that honorable Committee, or any other, to act, or vote, as Members of Par∣liament, the Supreme Judicature of this Nation, until they be legally acquitted of their several crimes, and lest you should be ignorant of the truth hereof, I have herein sent to you the A•ticles of High Treason, remaining upon Record in the Capital Office against the one, and the true Coppy of the Appeal remaining in Parliament, against the other; which I desire you to communicate to that Honorable Commi•tee; if either of the malefactors presume to come to that Com∣mittee, that your self hereafter be void of blame and so I rest.
Given from my Lodgings, at Mr. Par∣son's in the Woolstaple. Westmin∣ster,this 27, of December, 1651.Your humble Servant, and Member of Jesus Christ, and of this Common-wealth. Thomas Elsliot, Ar. Ar. Conq.Worthy, Sir;AS I have always known you to be a worthy Patriot of the known and Fundamentall Laws of this Nation, and an equall Justici∣er in all civil Affairs, and hearing that you be a Member of the Committee appointed by the Honorable Parliament of the Com∣monwealth of England, upon the great business now in a∣gitation betwixt Mr. Primat and Sir Arthur Haslerig; I a Member of Jesus Christ and of this present Commonwealth, do civilly admonish you that you be cautious how Mr. Pride∣aux a person impeached of High Treason legally, and Mr. Blagrave and Allen, late a Member of the committee of Indempnity, and appelled for unjustice, before the Hono∣rable Parliament (being in their capacities, neither (probi
 vel legales homines) by the Law of this Nation, untill they have received their Tryals) do come to that Honorable Committee, or any other, to Act or Vote, as Members of Parliament, the Supream Judicatu•e of this Nation, untill they be legally acquitted of their several crimes; and lest you should be ignorant or the truth hereof, I have herein sent to