A letter to the author of The Dutch design, anatomized written by a citizen of London, for the promoting of His Majesties service.


A LETTER to the Author of the DƲTCH Design, Anatomized.Written by a Citizen of LONDON, for the Promoting of His MAJESTIES Service.Quis Coelum Terris non misceat & Mare Coelo
Si fur displiceat Verri, homicida Miloni,
Clodius Accuset Moechos, Catilina Cethegum.
Juvenal. Sat. 2.SIR,I Have read your Anatomy of the Dutch Design, with as much
patience as a true Member of the Church of England could
be supposed to have on such an Occasion, and I cannot
forbear telling you I am a little Dissatisfied with it, and in
part the Reasons why. First, I would gladly have known the
Name of this true Member of our Church, and of his Person of
Quality too, for whose satisfaction this piece of Anatomy was
composed. 2ly. Why it comes out with ALLOWANCE rather
than with a License, which is our legal word. And Thirdly,
Why Randal Taylor, and not H. H. is the Publisher? These are
small Queries, but you know we Church of England-men have
been so long haunted with Ghosts and Hobgoblins, and Wolves
in Sheeps cloathing, that we are apt to Anatomize all Papers that
come forth with ALLOWANCE; and if the inside do not an∣swer
the outside, we cry a Jesuite in Masquerade; and then all the
World is on the Gaze to observe what the Bontefeu would be at.
Well, Sir, I have rubb'd my Eyes this morning, and I am
ready to hear what it is you have to say, To Enquire into the
original Causes of the Discontent of the Church of England at some
late Proceedings, or to search into the Grounds, why His Majesty
desires to Establish Liberty of Conscience, was so stifly opposed, were
to re-kindle Intestine Contests, which ever were, and much more
NOW are to be Avoided? Why, Sir, is it even so? Must all that
has been done by the Red-Letter-men since the Defeat of the
Western Rebellion, be so cleverly conveyed away Now as never
more to be thought of? Some few late proceedings and Liberty
of Conscience are soft Words, and surely these Church of Eng∣land-men
are not so hard-hearted, as to remember Now such
small matters as these, how stifly soever they opposed them. In
truth, Sir, you are a pleasant Gentleman, and ought to be re∣commended
to his Holiness for his Confectioner. An Irish Mas∣sacre,
or a German Design to subvert the Laws of a Nation, or
a French gentle re-establishment of Catholick Religion thus
softly and sweetly worded, would go glibly down with a good-Natured
Heretick.
The Jealousies, the Ferment, and the Commotions in the next
Section are shewn in such an huddle of confusion, as I know not
what you mean, only I perceive it is so express'd, because you
were upon the Wing for Holland, and had no leisure to talk of
what had been done in England; but Discontents there were,
and the Plaguy Dutchmen were told of them by a Party of Eng∣lish
and Scotch Male contents. Why had it not been for them,
the Reverend Fathers of England might have done what they
had ple