Londons resurrection, or, The rebuilding of London encouraged, directed and improved in fifty discourses : together with a preface, giving some account both of the author and work / by Samuel Rolls.


Londons Resurrection OR THE REBUILDING OF LONDON Encouraged, Directed, and Improved, In Fifty Discourses.
Together with a Preface, giving some account both of the Authour and Work.
By Samuel Rolls, Minister of the Gospel, and sometime Fellow of Trinity Colledg in Cambridg.
LONDON, Printed, by W. R. for Thomas Parkhurst, at the Sign of the Golden Bible on London-Bridge, under the Gate, 1668.
To the Right Worshipful Sr John Langham, Knight and Baronet, And Sir James Langham, his Son, KNIGHT.
To the Right Worshipful Sir Thomas Player, Chamberlain of the City of LONDON; And Sir Thomas Player his Son, KNIGHTS.
And to the Right Worshipful. Sir Francis Rolle & Sir Stephen White, KNIGHTS.
To the Worshipful Francis Warner, Nathaniel Barnar∣diston, Thomas Bewly, Henry Spur∣stow, Robert Welden, and Henry Ashurst, ESQUIRES.
S. R.
Humbly dedicateth all the insuing Discourses, in testimony of his unfained respects (as mean and unworthy as they are) wishing to all, and every of you (his much honoured friends) all needful blessings, both for the Life that is, and that which is to come.
THE PREFACE.Christian Reader,IF thou hast an affection for London, or any par∣ticular concern in the rebuilding of it, (as very many have) the title of this book (and I will assure thee the drift and purport of it, is such as the Title pretendeth to) may invite thee to spend a few hours in the perusal of it, and to cover a multitude of infirmities in the Author, and this his work, with respect to the goodness, and usefulness of his design. I know no secular design now on foot, in this part of the world, that is, or seemeth to be, of greater importance, and that to thousands of families, than is the rebuilding of London: and yet no one English pen (so far as I know) hath been imployed, in the directing, and incouraging of it, till the unworthy Author of this poor Treatise, like Elihu who had waited for the words of others, and did not answer to Job, till his betters seemed resolved to be silent, made bold to break the Ice, and did redeem what time he could, from a thousand cares, and perplexities, to signifie his great compassion, and high respects to that once famous, but now ruinous City, in which he drew his first breath. I dare not to speak in any such language as Deborah did, Judg. 5.7. They ceased in Israel, till I Deborah arose, &c. I shall not presume to compare with her, though but a woman, but ra∣ther confess my self to be as a worm and no man.
What the Apostle saith of himself, 1 Cor. 2.3. I was with you in weakness, and in fear, and in much trembling, and the expressions he useth concerning
himself, Acts 20.19. Serving the Lord with all hu∣mility of mind, and with many tears, and temptations which befel me: I say those expressions have been much what applicable to my case