Pauls crovvne of reioycing. Or The maner how to heare the word with profit. By Thomas Granger preacher of the word at Botterwike in Holland, neere Boston in Lincolnshire


PAVLS CROVVNE OF REIOYCING.OR The manner how to heare the Word with profit.
By THOMAS GRANGER preacher of the word at Botterwike in Holland, neere Boston in Lincolnshire.
IAMES 1. 12.Blessed is the man that endureth temptation, for when he is tried, hee shall receiue the Crowne of life, which the Lord hath promised to them that loue him.
LONDON: Printed by T. S. for Thomas Pauier, and are to be sold at his shop in Yuie lane.
1616.
TO THE WORSHIPFVL and vertuous Lady, the Lady, IOAN ALTHAM, temporall happinesse, and eternall blessednesse.GOOD MADAME:MAY it please your Lady∣ship to accept this small treatise, of the right hea∣ring of the word. Small it is, not in respect of the sub∣iect; for to be a good hea∣rer is no lesse excellent a gift of grace, then to be a good speaker: but in respect of the forme, phrase, and manner of handling thereof, wherein I haue fashioned my selfe to the capa∣citie of vulgar ignorant people, euen such like as by Gods prouidence I haue heene called vn∣to, who are fitter for milke then strong meates.

Yet whatsoeuer it is, such it shall be, as your Ladiship shall accept it, and to speake ingeni∣ously without flatterie, which J euer hated, your amiable disposition to Vertue, & Piety, in your yong age, as I well obserued, when here∣tofore I liued at the house of the good Knight Sir Iohn Leuenthorp your father; and my often remembrance thereof vpon occasions, and now vpon this occasion also, as also the sin∣gular duty that I owe to your ancient, and tru∣ly honoured familie, and to you in speciall, haue moued me, and made me the bolder to of∣fer this vnworthy Present vnto you, desiring you to accept it only as a token of a thankfull minde, and sincere affection; which remaine euer disposed to the performance of any seruice wherein your Ladiship by me may be pleasu∣red.
Your Ladiships in all dutie to command THOMAS GRANGER.From Botterwike in Holland, neere Boston in Lincoln∣shire.1616.PAVLS CROVVNE OF Reioycing.1 THES. 2. 13.For this cause also, thanke we God without ceasing, that when yee receiued of vs the word of the preaching of God, yee receiued it not as the word of men, but as it is indeed, the word of God, which also worketh in you that beleeue.IN the former Chapter, at the second verse, the Apostle be∣ginneth a congratulation, whereby he reioyceth in the behalfe of the Thessalonians for their effectuall faith, dili∣gentloue, and patience in per∣secution, wherein they ex∣celled, as they became ensamples to all the faith∣full in Macedonia and Achaia. Now in this second Chapter from the first verse to the 13. he maketh a di∣gression; wherin he laboreth to confirme them in this

effectuall and fruitfull faith, and that by an argument drawne from his true Apostleship, which by three principall reasons hee prooueth, and approueth vnto them.
1. By his en