A most compleat compendium of geography, general and special describing all the empires, kingdoms and dominions in the whole world : shewing their bounds, situation, dimensions, ancient and modern names, history, government, religions, languages, commodities ... archbishopricks and universities : in a more plain and easie method, more compendious and (perhaps) more useful than any of this bigness : to which are added general rules for making a large geography, ... / collected according to the most late discoveries and agreeing with the choicest and newest maps by Laurence Eachard ...


A most Compleat COMPENDIUM OF GEOGRAPHY, GENERAL and SPECIAL; Describing all the Empires, Kingdoms, and Dominions, IN THE Whole WORLD. Shewing their Bounds, Situation, Dimensions, Ancient and Modern Names, History, Government, Religions, Languages, Commodities, Divisions, Subdivisions, Cities, Rivers, Mountains, Lakes, with their Arch∣bishopricks, and Universities. In a more Plain and Easie Method, more Compendious, and (perhaps) more Useful than any of this bigness. To which are added, General Rules for making a large GEOGRAPHY Very necessary for the right Understanding of the Tran¦sactions of these Times. Collected according to the most late Discoveries, and agreeing with the choicest and newest MAPS. By LAVRENCE EACHARD, of Christ's-Colledge in Cambridge.
London: Printed for Thomas Salusbury at the Sign of the Temple near Temple-Bar in Fleet-street. 1691.
To the Reverend and truly Learned Dr. IOHN COVEL, Chancellour of YORK, AND MASTER OF CHRIST-COLLEDGE IN CAMBRIDGE.Reverend Sir,WHen you first find your Name prefixed to this Book, you will no less

marvel at my Boldness than Folly; but the Right of De∣dication, which every Scribler assumes to himself, may in some measure save me harm∣less; and your Goodness, which truly knows how to pardon the rash Attempts of Youth, has animated me to shelter this small Trifle under the Patronage of your Name. I will not go about to exte∣nuate my Crime, by such ful∣some Panegyricks as Dedica∣tions are usually stuffed with∣al; for those are the common Badges of mercenary Pens, which too oft betray the Wit

as well as the Integrity of such Writers. I do not pretend in the least to better your Understanding by this small Compendium, or to add any thing to the knowledge of a Person who is already so well acquainted with the World, and has seen so many famous Countries: Neither do I make use of your Name to avoid (the common Fate of Young Writers) Envy, for to be thought worthy of that, shall be my greatest Glory; but chiefly because the Name of so Eminent a Patron may give the greater encourage∣ment

to others, and that this Science may be the more e∣steemed in our Vniversity; and lastly, that I may let the World know how much I am honoured by publishing my self
Your most humble and devoted Servant, LAU. EACHARD.THE PREFACE.THere is no Man, I believe, can with very much Rea∣son find fault with the Sub∣ject of this Book, being so n