Poems and songs by Thomas Flatman.


 [illustration] THOMAS FLATMAN. [portrait of Thomas Flatman] 
POEMS AND SONGS, BY THOMAS FLATMAN.
The Fourth Edition, With many Additions and Amendments.
——Me quoque vatem
Dicunt Pastores, sed non Ego credulus illis.
Virgil.LONDON, Printed for Benjamin Tooke, at the Ship in St. Paul's Church-Yard. 1686.
TO HIS GRACE THE DUKE OF ORMOND Lord Lieutenant of Ireland, &c. In humble acknowledgment of His Princely Favours The POEMS are with all Dutiful Respect DEDICATED By his GRACE's Ever Oblig'd, and most Obedient Servant, Thomas Flatman.
To the READER.WHen I was prevail'd upon to make a Fourth Publication of these Poems with a great many Additions, it was told me, That with∣out a Preface the Book would be unfashionable; Ʋniversal Custom had made it a Debt, and in this Age the Bill of Fare was as necessary as the En∣tertainment. To be Civil therefore, and to Comply with Expectation, instead of an elaborate Harangue in Commen∣dation of the Art in general, or what, and what Qualifications go to the ma∣king up of a Poet in particular, and without such artificial Imbellishments as use to be the Ornament of Prefaces, as Sayings of Philosophers, Ends
 of Verses, Greek, Latin, Hunga∣rian, French, Welch, or Italian, Be it known unto the Reader, That in my poor Opinion Poetry has a very near Resemblance to the modern Expe∣riment of the Ambling-Saddle; It's a good Invention for smoothing the Trott of Prose; That's the Mecha∣nical use of it. But Physically it gives present Ease to the Pains of the Mind, contracted by violent Surfeit of either good or bad Ʋsage in the World. To be serious, 'tis an Innocent Help to Sham a Man's time when it lies on his hands and his Fancy can relish nothing else. I speak but my own Experience; when any Accident hath either pleas'd or vex'd me beyond my power of expressing either my Satisfastion or Indignation in downright Prose, I found it seasonable
 for Rhiming; and I believe from what follows it may be discern'd when 'twas Fair Weather, when Changeable, and when the Quicksilver fell down to Storm and Tempest. As to the Measures observ'd by me, I always took a peculiar delight in the Pindarique strain, and that for two Reasons, First, it gave me a liberty now and then to cor∣rect the saucy forwardness of a Rhime, and to lay it aside till I had a mind to admit it; And secondly, if my Sense fell at any time too short for my Stanza, (and it will often happen so in Versisy∣ing) I had then opportunity to fill it up with a Metaphor little to the purpose, and (upon occasion) to run that Meta∣phor stark mad into an Allegory, a practice very frequent and of admirable use amongst the Moderns, especially
 the Nobless of the Faculty. But in good earnest, as to the Subjects, which came in my way to write upon, I must declare that I have chosen only such as might be treated within the Rules of Decency, and without offence either to Religion or good Manners. The Caution I receiv'd (by Tradition) from the Inc