A Scripture testimony to the saints practices wherein all may see the practice of the holy men and women of God ...


A Scripture Testimony TO THE SAINTS PRACTICES, Wherein all may see the Practice of the Holy Men and Women of God, in their Service in the Church of God, and what Good Works, and Practices, and Services they exhorted unto, as followeth, as you may see both in the Old and New Testament, which is the Duty of all True Christians to follow.YE are a peculiar People, Zealous of Good Works, Tit. 2.14.
The Woman wrought a Good Work upon Christ, he saith in Mat. 26 10.
Paul saith to the Church of Coll•ssions, Being fruitful in eve∣ry Good Work, and encreasing in the Knowledge of God, Col. 1.10.
And that you may be established in every Good Word and Work, 2 Thess. 2.17.
She, to wit, a Widow, well reported for her Good Works, 1 Tim. 5.9, 10.
That the Church which believe in God might be careful to maintain Good Works; these things are good and profitable to men, Tit. 3.8.
And let ours also (to wit, the Church of Christ) learn to maintain Good Works for necessary Uses, that they may not
be unfruitful: this sayes Paul to Titus and to the Church, Tit. 3.14.
Let us consider one another, to provoke to Love and to Good Works, Hebr. 10.24.
That they do Good, that they be rich in Good Works, rea∣dy to distribute, willing to communicate; for God giveth us all things to enjoy, 1 Tim. 6.17, 18.
But to do Good and to Communicate, forget not; for with such Sacrifices God is well pleased, Hebr. 13.16.
As God hath distributed to every man, and as the Lord hath called every one, so let him walk, and so ordain I in all Churches, 1 Cor. 7.17.
And Paul exhorts the Church of the Romans to their distri∣buting to the Necessity of the Saints, and being given to Hos∣pitality, Rom. 12.13.
And to make Contribution for the poor Saints that were at Jerusalem, which the Apostle Paul mentions to the Romans, chap. 15.26.
Only that we should remember the Poor, the same which I also was forward to do, faith the Apostle to the Church at Gala∣tia, Gal. 2 10.
If any man minister, let him do it of the Ability which God hath given him that God in all things may be glorified through Jesus Christ; to whom be Praises and Dominion forever and ever, Amen. 1 Pet. 4.11.
And let us not be weary in well-doing; for in due season we shall reap, if we faint not; as we have therefore Oppor∣tunity, let us do Good unto all men, especially unto the Hous∣hold of Faith, Gal. 6.9, 10.
And whatsoever you do in Word or Deed, do all in the Name of Jesus; and whatsoever ye do, do it heartily, as un∣to the Lord, knowing that of the Lord ye shall receive the Reward of the Inheritance; for ye do serve the Lord, Col. 3.17, 23, 24.
Therefore to him that knoweth how to do Good, and doth it not, it is to him Sin, James 4 17.
He that hath Pity on the Poor, lendeth to the Lord; and
that which he hath given will he pay him again, Prov. 19.17.
And you may see, such as were careful to hearken unto the Voice of the