A remedy against despair. Or Brief discourse wherein great sinners are encouraged, and directed how to improve the consideration of the greatness of their sins in praying to God for pardon. Being the substance of two sermons preached at the lecture in Boston, 1699. / By Samuel Willard, teacher of a church there. ; [Four lines of Scripture texts]


A Remedy against Despair.
OR Brief Discourse wherein Great Sinners are Encouraged, and Directed how to improve the consideration of the Greatness of their SINS in Praying to GOD for PARDON.
BEING •he Substance of Two SERMONS ••eached at the Lecture in Boston, 1699.
〈◊〉Samuel Willard, Teacher of a Church there.
〈◊〉. 43 25.I, even I am he that blotteth out thy Transgressions for mine own sake.
Magnam injuriam Deo facit, qui diffidit de ejus misericordia.
Aug.Boston, Printed by B Green, and J. Allen. Sold by S. Phillips at the Brick Shop. 1700.
A Remedy against Despair.PSAL. XXV.11.For thy Name sake, O Lord, pardon mine Iniquity: for it is great.
AT what time, or on what occa|sion this Psalm was penned by David, we are not told; how|ever the Contents of it give us to understand, that it was a time of com|plicated trouble with him; his Enemies were grown insolent, and gave him great molestation; and his Sins mean while pained his Conscience, and disquieted his

mind; it may therefore be well supposed to refer to the disturbances which were occasioned by Absaloms unnatural Rebel|lion, which was consequent upon, and a threatned correction for his great sin in the matter of Uriah. The Psalm there|fore is a prayer of Faith with which he addresseth God in this condition; and is made up of petitions, and pleas where|with those petitions are enforced; intro|duced with a profession of his recumben|cy on God in the midst of his distress, verse 1, 2. The Petitions, though inter|woven in the Psalm, may be reduced to two heads, viz. for deliverance from his Enemies, and a discharge from the Guilt of his Sins; in each whereof he fortifies his Faith, and strengthens his importuni|ty with suitable arguments. Our Text is a Petition of the latter sort. In the words we may observe;
1. The Object to whom he directs it, the Lord; the word is, Jehovah, which is a proper and incommunicable name of God, and is no where ascribed to any second being whatsoever, but to the true God alone.
2. The benefit which he petitioneth for, viz. pardon or forgiveness; the word properly signifies to pardon, or to spare of free grace or mercy, without any the least deserving in the Subject to whom it is applied: and Criticks observe that it is most commonly used in the Law of Mo|ses, for such a forgiveness as is afforded, upon an oblation that hath been offered to God for the expiation of the Guilt contracted by the person; so that we may here suppose the Psalmist to have an eye of Faith upon the Sacrifice of Christ, which was to satisfie the Justice of God, in order to the obtaining of a Pardon for Sinners. Pardon presumes Guilt, and supposeth i