The state of religion among the Protestant dissenters in Virginia; in a letter to the Rev. Mr. Joseph Bellamy, of Bethlem, in New-England: / from the Reverend Mr. Samuel Davies, V.D.M. in Hanover County, Virginia. ; [Two lines from Proverbs]


State of Religion AMONG The Protestant DISSENTERS IN VIRGINIA; In a LETTER To the Rev. Mr. Joseph Bellamy, of Bethlem, in New-England: From the Reverend Mr. SAMUEL DAVIES, V.D.M. in Hanover County, Virginia.
As cold Water to a thirsty Soul, so is good News from a far Country.SOLOMON, Prov. 25. 25.BOSTON: N. E. Printed and Sold by S. KNEELAND, in Queen-Street, opposite the Prison. MDCCLI.
A LETTER, &c.Reverend and dear Sir,_IF
the Publication of a Narrative of the Rise, Progress and present Situation of Religion in Virginia, may not only gra|tify good People, but (as you give me Reason to hope) animate their Prayers for us, and also encourage Preachers to come into these Parts; I should charge my self with a crimi|nal Neglect, did I deprive this Colony of these Blessings, by delaying or refusing to publish the marvellous Works of the Lord among us. Such Matters are liable to Misrepresentations; and I doubt not but the State of Religion in these Parts has suffered the same Fate with other Facts reported by common Fame, and been mag|nified or diminished to you. I shall therefore, Sir, with as much Brevity and Accuracy as the Case and my Cir|cumstances will allow, give you an Account of the State of Religion among the Protestant Dissenters in Virginia, not only in my Congregation in Hanover, but also in the Frontier Counties of this Colony, which are gene|rally inhabited by Dissenters; which, after Perusal, you may present to the Publick, or doom to Oblivion, as your Prudence will direct. I look upon my self under the most sacred Obligations to maintain the strictest Re|gard to Matter of Fact in my Narrative: and as my Residence in Hanover above three Years, and my Itine|rations
among the vacant Congregations in the Frontier Counties, have furnished me with-peculiar Opportuni|ties of Information, my Misrepresentations would be the more inexcusable.
My Design Sir, is not to inform the World of my petty personal Concerns, to boast of Proselytes, or to as|perse the Church of England here established; and there|fore, to avoid Suspicions, I must suppress sundry Parti|culars that might be proper to mention in the Freedoms of amicable Conversation, but are not to be trusted to the Candour of a censorious World; and I have always tho't it an Instance of Imprudence pregnant with mis|chievous Consequences, when Persons in such Cases un|bosom themselves to Mankind in general, with the un|guarded Liberties of intimate Friendship.
It will not probably be worth while to give you any further Geographical Account of Hanover County, where the late Revival of Religion began, than that it is situ|ated, I think, pretty near the Centre of Virginia; is a flourishing County, and generally very healthy to Per|sons from all Nations; wh