Good news from Ireland being a true and faithful account of a late signal victory gain'd by our English forces near Dublin : together with a report of the taking of that strong city Drogheda, and the speedy advancing of our army from thence towards Dublin : as also an account of the taking of several vessels, and abundance of horses from the enemy, of which the very horse King James rid on in the fight was one, which is now brought to High-lake, with several other things of great moment : in a letter directed from an officer in the fight, to Mr. John Cook at the sheers in Little Lumbard street, where the true copy is to be seen.


Good News from IRELAND, Being a True and Faithful Account of a Late Signal Victory Gain'd by our English Forces near DUBLIN.
Together with a Report of the taking of that strong City Drogheda, and the speedy Advancing of our Army from thence towards Dublin.
As also an Account of the taking of several Vessels, and abundance of Horses from the Enemy, of which the very Horse King James Rid on in the Fight was one, which is now brought to High-lake; with several other things of great moment.
In a Letter directed from an Officer in the Fight, to Mr. John Cook at the Sheers in Little Lumbard street, where the true Copy is to be seen.
Printed according to Order.
SIR,THough occasion has not hitherto per∣mitted me to write to you all this time, yet I hope this will not be unwelcome to such a well-wisher of their Majesties and Countreys Interest as your self. We just now Arrived here safe from Dublin Bay, whither our Comman∣der Captain John Jennings was ordered out last Week, taking Their Majesties Ship the Dover, Captain Whitaker Commander a∣long for our Assistance: we Arrived at Dub∣lin Bay about 11 at Night on Friday last, and came to an Anchor, sent our Boats to and a∣gain over the Bay all that Night and to Mor∣row after, and did take several little Vessels with Prisoners, and Protestants, by whom we were too late informed that four Vessels went richly loaded for France some five or six hours before we Arrived; but our com∣fort is that the Ruby and James Galley being sent before us to Cruise over against Water∣ford and Saltess, can hardly be supposed to miss of them. Our taking of so many of their Barks and Vessels did so vex the Irish that they planted abundance of Great Guns upon one side of the Bay, and play'd very smartly upon us all Saturday Morning, which our Men were so unconcerned at, that while their Great Shot came very thick about us on all sides, yet all we returned them for some time were some few Hollows of deri∣sion after every Volley of the Irish Guns. But at length our Commander orders to weigh Anchor, and coming some nearer to them, returned them so hot Broad-sides that though all the place was full of Men, and convenience to keep our Shot from doing them much hurt, yet of a truth it was plea∣sant to see with what pannick fear and con∣fusion they run every one almost a different way, in all the World like a c