A sermon upon Matthew v. 23, 24. By William Tennant, A.M.


A SERMON UPON MATTHEW V. 23, 24.
BY WILLIAM TENNENT, A. M.
NEW-YORK: Printed and Sold by JAMES PARKER, at the New Printing-Office, in Beaver-Street.
PREFACE.IT was far from the Author's Intention or Desire, to appear in Print upon this Subject. The earnest Importunity of a considerable Number of Clergymen, for whom he has great Respect, and who were present at the Delivery of the Discourse, was the only Thing that made him consent. Diffident of his own Judgment, he has ventured on theirs. As to the Stile and Manner, he makes no Apology, more than for the Appearance of his Person; it is such as is natural to him. Yet so much with Justice he may say, that when he wrote it, he did not dream but that it was fated, with innumerable more, to lie and moulder in the Oblivion of his own Desk.
An abused Text.MAT. V. 23, 24.Therefore if thou bring thy Gift to the Altar, and there remembrest that thy Brother hath aught against thee; leave there thy Gift before the Altar, and go thy Way; first be reconciled to thy Brother, and then come and offer thy Gift.
_AS Ignorance and Inattention is often apt to misapply Texts of Scripture, so an evil Temper is ever ready to catch at any Plea that may seem to warrant the Neglect of Gospel Ordi|nances: It is therefore the undoubted Duty of Ministers of the Gospel, to vindicate every Part of the sacred Record from Abuse, and as much as possible, to prevent Men from turning into Poison that which was designed for their Nourishment.
The Words which I have read in your Ears, are some of the Number which require our Attention, to prevent a Misimprovement of them, to the Hurt of many. I take this Opportunity therefore to call your Attention to a calm Consideration of their true Intent and Meaning.
To view them in their Connections, and to shew you their Import as relating to the Jews, shall be our first Part.
An Application to Christians, shall be our Second.
To point out the Abuses to which these Words are liable, we shall endeavour in the last Place.
I. If you consider the Connection of these Words, you find they make a Part of that astonishing Sermon which the Son of God preached to his Disciples on the Mount. A Sermon, in which he seems wholly to aim at overthrowing the Corruptions of human Nature, and particularly to knock down the base Props of them which the wicked Pharisees had set up under Colour of the Law. He begins by blessing and pronouncing happy those whom Men naturally account most un|happy. After rectifying their Judgment in these Respects, he proceeds directly to oppose the corrupt Glosses which the Scribes and Pharisees had cast over the Law: He aims to arouse and alarm his Hearers, by assuring them that unless their Righteousness was of a superior kind to that of the Scribes and Pharisees, Men of whom they had such an high Opinion, they should in no wise enter into the Kingdom of Heaven. Unless they came to see more of the Spirituality and Extent o