Mercies memorial set out in a sermon preached in Paul's church, Novemb. 17, 1644, in memoriall of the great deliverance which England had from antichristian bondage by Queen Elizabeths attaining the crowne/ by William Gouge ...


Mercies Memoriall. Set out in A SERMON PREACHED In Paul's Church, Novemb. 17. 1644. in memoriall of the great deliverance which England had from Antichistian bondage by Queen ELIZABETHS attaining the Crowne.
By William Gouge. 
Judg. 5.7.The Inhabitants of the villages ceased, they ceased in Israel, untill that I Deborah arose, that I arose a mother in Israel.
Isai 49.23.Kings shall be thy nurcing fathers, and Queens thy nurcing mothers.
Historia vita memoriae, magistra vitae. 
Cic. de Orat.Imprimatur
THO. GATAKER.Novemb. 25. 1644. 
LONDON, Printed by George Miller for Ioshua Kirton, in Foster-lane next to Gold-smiths Hall. 1645.
TO THE RIGHT HONOVRABLE Thomas Atkin, Lord Major of the Honourable City of LONDON.Right Honourable,BY a Note under your own hand, I was ap∣pointed to preach at Paul's Church on the seventeenth of November. The seven∣teenth of November is a day of so high ac∣count with me, that I durst not make any ex∣cuse, though otherwise in way of excuse, I might have pleaded my age, my weaknesse, and multitude of other imployments: but the seventeenth of November, be∣ing such a day as is set out to be in the following Sermon, ought to be had in perpetuall remembrance. It may be that all have not that day in so high account as I have, and that if another had performed that duty, he would have over-slipt it, with∣out any mention made thereof. Length of time makes memo∣rable matters to be forgotten; and it is now above fourscore and six yeares since that seventeenth of November. There∣in England first received such a blessing as never ought to slip out of the heart of an English man. That seventeenth of November was the day when unparallel'd Queene Eliza∣beth
first came to the Crowne. Thorough Gods blessing, I spent eight and twenty yeares of my dayes under her raigne; and I have oft blessed God that I was borne, and so long brought up in that blessed time. I have been called in my younger yeares to performe publike Scholasticall duties on a seventeenth of November, and me thought, I never performed any more cheerfully. The very subject matter put life and spirit into me. Since I was called to the ministeriall Function, I have many yeares on the seventeenth of November made the best re∣membrance that I could of that dayes blessing. Being by you called to the most publike place of London, I could not, I durst not passe over the mention of that blessing. I did the more willingly publish it to the view of all sorts, that I may provoke others to be more mindfull of that day. And to your Honour in speciall, I dedicate these my poore labours, because you were the first mover thereunto. And now, my good Lord, having this occasion in publike to speake to you, give me leave, I beseech you, to stirre up your honourable min