A treatise on the propagation of sheep, the manufacture of wool, and the cultivation and manufacture of flax, with directions for making several utensils for the business. / By John Wily.


A TREATISE ON THE Propagation of SHEEP, THE MANUFACTURE of WOOL, AND THE Cultivation and Manufacture of FLAX, with Directions for making several Utensils for the Business.
By JOHN WILY.
WILLIAMSBURG: Printed by J. Royle, MDCCLXV.
The PREFACE.As it is customary for the smallest Pamphlets to have a Preface to recommend them to the Publick, I suppose it will be expected there should be one to this, though I am of Opinion it needs no other Recommendation than the present Circumstances of the Generality of the Inhabitants, in this Colony, who are more in Debt than they can possibly raise Money to discharge, our Paper Currency being almost exhausted, little or no Gold or Silver amongst us, Tobacco (our Staple Commo|dity) of so little Value that it is scarce worth making, and Goods at a higher Price than was ever known in this Colony before. I think this a sufficient Recommendation of these few Sheets to the Publick, and hope it will plead a sufficient Excuse for my undertaking a Task which I must acknow|ledge myself incapable of in Regard to penning it in a grammatical and methodical Form; but as it is intended chiefly for the Benefit of the common and poorer Sort of People, I hope the Learned will not condemn it, but lend their kind Assistance to the publishing a better Piece on the same Subject, for the Encouragement of Arts and Manufactures amongst us: For as we have got in Debt by our Indolence and Extravagancy, sure there is no bet|ter Method to retrieve ourselves than by our Industry and Frugality. And I must believe, and hope, this small Treatise will forward those Ma|nufactures, as I have given the plainest Directions

for the Performance of every Operation in each of them; so that a Person, of a common Capacity, may go through the whole Processes without any other Instructions. Though Fortune hath not placed me in Circumstances to be so great a Benefac|tor to my Country as she hath those who can af|ford to lay out two or three Hundred Pounds to improve the Breed of Horses amongst us, yet my Labour in writing this Pamphlet I hope will be serviceable, and as well accepted by the Publick as the Widow's Mite was in the Treasury; and I hope it will prove very beneficial to every Pur|chaser. This is the sincere Wishes and Prayer of him who begs Leave to subscribe himself the Virginia Farmer's
Most Obedient and Very Humble Servant, JOHN WILY.For the Propagation of SHEEP, and increasing the Quantity of WOOL.THOUGH Sheep are the most beneficial Creatures we can raise, they affording us both Food and Raiment, yet there is no dumb Creature taken so little Notice of in Virginia as they; there being but very few People here that take Care to sow any Thing for Winter Pasturage for them, or provide or give them any other Food than a few dry Blades in the Winter. And as Wo