Mr. Lillies new prophecy, or, Sober predictions of a peace between the French and Dutch, and their allies, speedily to be concluded drawn from some astrological considerations of the general assembly of the planets happening in Sagitary, in the month of December, this present year 1675, etc. : together with some probable conjectures of the success of the King of Poland, against the Turks and Tartars : from the several configurations of the heavens in the approaching year, 1676.


Mr. LILLIES NEVV PROPHECY.
OR; Sober Predictions of a Peace between the French and the Dutch, and their Allies, speedily to be concluded.
Drawn from some Astrological Considerations of the general Assembly of the Planets happening in Sagitary, in the Month of December, this present Year, 1675. &c.
Together with some probable Conjectures of the Success of the King of Poland, against the Turks and Tartars.
From the several Configurations of the Heavens, in the approach¦ing Year, 1676.
VVith Allowance.
Printed for. John Clarke, at the Bible and Harp, in West-Smith's field, neer the Hospital-gate.
VOX TƲRTƲRIS, OR, Well-wishing Predictions of an Universal peace, throughout EƲROPE.'TIs too sadly Visible and Notorious, how much Europe has for many years by-past suffered under the Calamities of a most grievous War: How Nations have Justled with Nations, and Kingdoms with Kingdoms, some striveing for Glory and Conquest, others gasp∣ing for liberty and self-preservation; Whilst to the prejudice (I wish we might not say to the reproach and scandal) of our most holy faith amongst upbraid∣ing infidels, the Swords of Christians have been mutually imbrued and distain'd with the blood of their slaughter'd Brethren; For what Crown or state (almost) is there professing Christianity, which and this day is not involved in the flame, except the land of our Nativity, where by the blessing of God aat care of his Vicegerent, our most gracious Prince, we
 enjoy a calm security of free trade, whilst all our neighbours are in danger of Shipwrack by the violent agitations of these unhappy Tempests, as if indul∣gent Heaven had rescued us from the common com∣bustion, that our deserving Monarch might have the honour of b•ing chiefly instrumental in quenching the flames, that he may enjoy the united applauses of Christendom for contributing to their General re∣pose, and reap the Glory of distributing Olive-•ranches more desirable than the Laurels of the proudest Conquerors.
The true primary or Original cause of all these di∣sturbances must be acknowledged to be that source of all our misery, SIN; whereby the Sons of Men provoke their God to visit them with these Judge∣ments; but amongst the natural and celestial prodro∣mi or fore-runners of them, whereby they were pre∣signified to the world, we may justly and principally reckon the three Comets (or Blazing-Stars) 1665. Of whose nature and effects much having been al∣ready written by several Authors we shall say no∣thing further here, nor undertake to