Two speeches spoken at a common hall Octob. 27. 1643 1. by Sir Henry Vane, 2. by Master Marshall; wherein is shew'd the readynesse of the Scots to assist the kingdome and Parliament of England to the vtmost of their power.


TWO
SPEECHES
SPOKEN AT A COMMON HALL
Octob. 27. 1643.1. By Sir Henry Vane.2. By Master Marshall. Wherein is shew'd the readynesse of the Scots
to assist the Kingdome and Parliament of Eng∣land
to the vtmost of their power.
LONDON
Printed for Peter Cole, and are to be sould at
his shop near the Royall Exchang.
Anno 1643.
Sir Henry Vane his Speech.MY Lord Major, and worthy Aldermen, and
the rest of the Gentlemen of the Citie, In o∣bedience
to the Commands of both Houses, we
that are lately come out of Scotland, and have been
eye witnesses (from the first time of our going over
thither) of the affection of that Nation to this cause
and of the deep sence they have of the present state
of Affaires here in this Kingdome, are willing at this
time to make the same report, and give the same ac∣compt
to you of it, as hath been done to the Parlia∣ment,
that you may take a right measure of the
trueth of those things, and not be caried away with
misapprehensions, and misinformations from those
that disaffect the cause, and would willingly abuse
your thoughts, and beleife herein; and therefore as
shortly as I am able, I shall be willing to give you the
accompt of those things which I know, and which I
have seen there, and which this other Gentleman, a
rever•nd Minister, of your owne acquaintance, and of
knowne integritie, hath been privie to, that I doe not
doubt, what he likewise shall deliver in this businesse
you will very readily give credit too, it being no∣thing
but what will be found to be the trueth.
For the affection of that Nation, we have had ma∣ny
experiences of it, and of their readie and cheere∣full
compliance with the desires of this Kingdome, e∣ven
when they were in their greatest distresses and
calamities: When we first came over there, the af∣faires
then of this Nation, were in a much lower con∣dition,
then now (by the blessing of God) we find

them to be; yet notwithstanding though that Nation
had many invitations from those, who as they were
forward to promise, so were they able to have bestow∣ed
great matters vpon them, and though there were
many secret practises among themselves to make
them set loose from the cause of this Kingdome, yet
so sensible they were, of the danger of Religion here
of the near relation that they had to their breethren
of England, and of that common calamitie threatned
to overrun both Kingdomes, that they were readie
to breake through all difficulties, and to expose
themselves to all dangers, to take us by the hand,
and to joyne cordially with us in the maintaining of
this cause; they did not only expresse this in their
words, and outward professions, but we have seen
since from time to time, and by severall steps, how
they have put it into Action: As soone as ever the
the Covenant which was t