A briefe declaration of the sacraments expressing the fyrst oryginall how they came vp, a[n]d were institute with the true and mooste syncere meaning and vnderstandyng of the same very necessarye for all men, that wyl not erre in the true vse and receauing therof. Compyled by the godly learned man Wyllyam Tyndall.


A Briefe de∣claration of the sacraments, expressing the fyrst oryginall how they came vp, ād were institute with the true and mooste syncere meaning and vnder∣standyng of the same very necessa∣rye for all men, that wyl not erre in the true vse and receauing therof / Compyled by the godly learned man Wyl∣lyam Tyndall.
Imprinted At London by Robert Stoughton. Dwellynge within Ludgate, at the sygne of the Bis∣shoppes Mi∣ter.
TO vnderstand the pytthe of the Sacramentes, how they came vppe and the verye meanynge of them / we must consyder dylygentlye the maners and facyons of ye hebrwes / whyche were a people of great grauyte and sadnes / & earnest ī all their doinges yf any notable thyng chaūced amōg thē that they not onely wrote, but also set vp pyllars & markes & diuerse signes to testify the same vnto their posterite / and named ye places wher the thynges were done, with such names as could not but kepe the dedes in memory. As Iacob called the Place where he sawe god, face to face: pheniel: yt is, gods face: & the place where the Egipcians mur∣ned Iacob .vij. dayes, the people of the contre called Abell miram. The lamen¦tacion of the Egipcians to the intent ye suche names shulde kepe the gestes and storyes in minde. And lykewyse in all the couenauntes, they not onely promy¦sed one to an other & sweare theron. But also set vp signes & tokens therof and gaue the places names to kepe the

thynge in mynde: And they vsed therto suche circūstaunces, {pro}testacyon and so∣lempne facyons, & ceremoneys to con∣fyrme the couenaūts and to testify that they were made wt great erne•t aduyse and delyberatyon: to the intent that it shulde be to much shame. & to muche ab¦homynacyon bothe before god & mā to breake thē euer after. As abrahā Ge. xx when he made a couenaūte of peace wt abymeleck kīge of the phylistians: after they had eaten & dronkne to gether and sworn. he put .vij. lambes by thē selues / and abemeleck reseaued thē of hys hād to testyfie that he ther had dyged a cer∣ten well, and yt the well therof pertayned to hym. And he called the well Barlabe: the well of sauerynge / or the well of se∣vyn: bycause of the oothe & of the seuyn lambes: & by that tytle dyd abrahams chyldren chalengyt many a hūdred yers after. And when Iacob & laban / made a couenaūt to gether Gen. 31. they cast vp an heape of stones in wytnesse & caused it Gylyad: ye heape of wytnesse and they boūde ether other / for thē & ther posteri¦te / that nether parte shuld passe ye heape

to ye otheres cōtreward, to hurt or cō∣quir ye lande. And laban bounde Iacob also yt he shuld take no mo wiues to his doughters. And of al that couenant thei made that keape