A sermon preached at the funeral of Mr. Arthur Vpton Esquire in Deuon. By Iohn Preston, minister of Gods word


TO THE WOR∣SHIPFVL AND MY VERY GOOD FRIENDS, Mr. IOHN VP∣TON Esquire, and to his vertuous and religious wife, Mistresse Dorothy Vpton, all prosperous welfare tending to eternall safetie.AS one not ambitious, but desirous to set foorth the glory of God, to declare his truth and publish his mercies, I haue pre∣sumed to present this small Treatise to your viewe, wherein is handled the shortnesse and fewnesse of mans dayes, the frailtie and vncertaintie thereof, how he is mortall, euery day dying, because euery day life shortneth, & the rather be∣cause it was preached at the Funerall of your deare Father. I knowe Salomon findeth fault with writing many bookes, saying, there is no end in writing many bookes, but  they are such doe defend false doctrine, and vaine opini∣ons which he taxeth, such as set foorth the glory of God he commendeth. This inconsiderate age of ours, is more wil∣ling to entertaine idle Pamphlets & vaine toyes, with fond

inuentions haue excogitated, then to embrace such laudable enterprises which further the kingdome of God, or perswade the truth of Religion among the sonnes of men. I knowe some will not spare to barke at this, but I will passe by the S••llean dogges. and stop my eares, as Ierome speakes, e∣stemingZoilus, nothing at all, nor much regarding 〈◊〉 as carpe at each monument of pietie, and in a prejudi∣••e 〈◊〉 reiect and discharge their paines who shall 〈◊〉 crosse the watch of their wicked delights. I doubt not 〈◊〉 with you and with all good Christians it will finde ac∣ceptance.) It is vnworthy the worlds view, being the fruits of a short conception, the effect of a distracted study, oft hindered and perturbed by sinister courses. Thus thanke∣fully remembring my selfe, doe commend your wayes to the Lord, that they may be prosperous, your sorrowes easie, your comforts many, your vertues eminent, your consciences quiet, your liues holy, your deaths comfortable, your election sure, and your saluation certaine, remaining.
Yours in all Christian affection,
IOHN PRESTON.A SERMON PREA∣CHED AT THE FV∣NERAL OF ARTHVR VPTON Esquire in Denon.PSAL. 103. 15. 16.Mans dayes are as an herbe, as a flower of the field so flori∣sheth he.
For the wind goeth ouer it, and it is not, and the place there∣of shall know it no more.
THis Psalme is laudatiue, wherein Dauid doth praise God for diuers benefits partly in particular be∣stowed on him, partly on all man kinde, and partly on the people of Israel. The first part of praise he propoundeth vnder the forme of an ex ortation, in the first and se∣cond verse. The benefits bes•••ed on him he setteth downe to be fiue, 1. remission of sinnes, 2. regenera∣tion, 3. deliuerance from dangers, 4. giuing victuals, and necessary foode, 5. strength of body, all which are contained in the 3. 4. 5. verses. The benefit bestowed

on the people of Israel were these, the opening of his word, the remiss