Several treatises of Jacob Behme not printed in English before ... : to which are annexed the exposition of the table of the three principles : also an epistle of the knowledge of God, and of all things, and of the true and false light : with a table of the revelation of the divine secret mystery /  Englished by John Sparrow.


SEVERAL Treatises: OF Jacob Behme Not printed in English before, according to the CATALOGUE here following, viz.
I. A Book of the Great Six Points: As also A Small Book of other Six Points.II. The, 177, Theosophick Questions: The First Thirteen, Answered.III. Of the Earthly and of the Heavenly Mystery.IV. The Holy-Week, or a Prayer-Book.V. Of Divine Vision.
To which are annexed the EXPOSITION Of the TABLE of the Three Principles.
Also an EPISTLE Of the Knowledge of God, and of All Things.
And of the True and False Light.
With a Table of the Revelation of the Divine secret Mystery.
Englished by JOHN SPARROW.
LONDON, Printed for L. Lloyd at the Castle in Corn-hill, 1661.
THE PREFACE To the ENGLISH READER.SEveral of the Writings of this Author Ja∣cob Behme have been published in his native Tongue the German, and were so loved and desired, at the first no∣tice of them, about the year 1612. by some noble, vertuous and learned Per∣sons, who procured Transcripts out of the Library at Gerlity, where the Primate Gregory Rickter had commanded it to be kept, that it should no more come to the Authors hands again: that beyond his expectation they wrote to him, to know whether he were the Author of them; and upon his An∣swer in return, they ceased not to solicite him to further
 writing, according to his high knowledge in the deepest Myste∣ries; which he performed from the year, 1619. to, 1624. in which year he departed this mortal life.
For, it appears by the History of his life, and in the Ca∣talogue printed at the end of his Book in Answer to the forty Questions of the Soul; that he wrote to the number of Thirty One several Treaties, whereof some have been studyed by persons of Learning, some Ministers as well as others, in Muscovia, Sweden, Poland, Denmark, the Netherlands, Germany, France, Spain, Italy, even in the City of Rome; and ••ry many in England, with good sa∣tisfactio• to their thirsty Souls, concerning true Religion and the way to salvation, and Twenty One of them have been formerly printed in the English tongue.
To some yet there remaineth still the complaint, that they are hard to be understood; though those that have di∣ligently perused his Books, have attained very satisfactory reso••tions to their destres in most deep and difficult, Divine and Natural Mysteries; and they that account them most ob∣scure, are such as cast their eyes only superficially, here and there upon some part of them, but those that have got∣ten a Tast and relish of his illuminated spirit of Under∣standing, appearing in his writings, are very eager after any thing of his that remains yet unpublished, for whose satisfacti∣on therefore here in thi