The second part of An apostate-conscience exposed being an answer to a scurrilous pamphlet, dated the 11th of April, 1699. Written and published, by F. Bugg, intituled, Jezabel withstood, and her daughter Ann Docwra reproved for her lies and lightness, in her book, stiled, An apostate conscience exposed, &c. By Ann Docwra.


THE
Second Part
OF AN
APOSTATE-CONSCIENCE
EXPOSED:
Being an ANSWER to a
Scurrilous Pamphlet,
Dated the 11th of April, 1699.
Written and Published, by F. Bugg,
INTITULED,
Jezabel withstood, and her Daugh∣ter
Ann Docwra reproved for her
Lies and Lightness, in her Book, sti∣led,
An Apostate Conscience Ex∣posed,
&c.
By ANN DOCWRA.
London, Printed and Sold by T. Sowle, in
White-hart-court in Gracious-street, 1700.
THE
PREFACE.I will pass by his Whimsical and Ridicu∣lous
Title, not troubling my Reader
with any Comment upon it, but refer
him to what I have writ already, in my
Book, intituled, An Apostate Conscience
Exposed, and the miserable Consequen∣ces
thereof disclosed. Printed and Sold
by T. Sowle, in White-Hart-Court, in
Gracious-Street, and at the Bible in Lea∣den-Hall-Street,
1699. And also, to what
I do here offer in Defence of the Truth, I
stand here to maintain, against this Apo∣state
Quaker, a Mercenary Agent, be∣longing
to such of the Clergy, as are un∣easie
under the Liberty granted to Prote∣stant
Dissenters, they attempting to break
the Unity and Interest of the Kingdom,
which hath been so long endeavoured by
Wise and Honest Men; as also does ap∣pear
in a printed Declaration, of King
Charles II. bearing date the 8th of April,
1681. and there is a Vote of the 10th of
January, 1680. made by the Parliament,
then sitting, in these words, Resolved,
That it is the Opinion of this House,
that the prosecuting of Protestant Dissen∣ters,
upon Penal Laws, is at this time
grievous to the Subject, a weakning of
the Protestant Interest, an incouragement
of Popery, and dangerous to the Peace of
the Kingdom.
And further, to Illustrate this most ra∣tional
and just Vote, I shall refer my Rea∣der
to the Act of Parliament, made by
King William and Queen Mary, intituled,
An Act for exempting their Majesties
Protestant Subjects, Dissenters from the
Church of England, from the Penalties of
certain Laws. This Act, in the first Pa∣ragraph
(which is the Preamble, and is as
a Key to open the Intendment of the Law)
says, That the Liberty granted may be
an effectual means to Unite their Maje-Protestant
Subjects in Interest and Af∣fection.
This is a certain way to do it,
with all honest plain-hearted People, and
hath in some measure done it with such;

but F. Bugg, and his Abettors of the
Clergy, have raised a New Persecution,
with Tongue and Pen, it being out of
their power to proceed any further, al∣though
they have used their endeavours
to do it; this shews what Subjects they
are to the King, that have no respect to
the Act for Uniting the Kings Subjects
in Interest and Affection.
This F. Bugg hath been of a Seared
Conscience, and Shattered Hea