The Dutch way of toleration, most proper for our English dissenters


THE
DUTCH Way of Toleration
Most proper for our
ENGLISH DISSENTER
Written at the Request of a Friend.
O! Imitatores servum pecus.
Quo teneam vultus mutantem Protea Nodo?
Hor.As free, and not using your Liberty for a Cloak of Malici∣ousness,
&c. St. Pet. Ep. 1. Ch. 2. V. 16.
LONDON,
Printed for the Author 〈…〉
THE
DUTCH Way of Toleration,
Most proper for our
ENGLISH DISSENTERS.SIR,THis returns my Thanks, for the Favour of your last,
and candid Acknowledgment, that I had reason in
affirming, the Sword would continue to halt it on be∣tween
St. Paul's and Pinner's-Hall, as long as this
was Mayor; for now you were come over to my Opinion,
and saw it would not only be so, but that his Successor, finding
the Ice thus broken, would, probably, follow in the same Track,
or otherwise improve the Affront to our old Establishments, ac∣cording
as the several Factions, which plac'd him in the Chair, should
think fit to direct: Hereupon you desire me to communicate what I
know in reference to the Dutch Toleration, (whereof you have
heard several hints in our private Converse) and how it comes
to pass, that the many differing Perswasions amongst them enjoy
their Liberty with a continued Peace and Quiet, whereas ours are
always restless and encroaching, every day grasping at more, and
seem still dissatisfied unless they can engross all.
Indeed, Sir, it was to my no little surprize, when last in Town,
to find your self, and some other Friends, so positive, that a Re∣primand
from the Court of Aldermen, and some by-Reflections in an
Higher Court, would stifle their Delign, or make them give it over,
which I perceived was deeper laid, and had greater Encouragements,
than any of you did then imagine; yet sure this you must 〈…〉•••v'd, that 'tis very rare to find those Parties doing their business
by halves; whatever Lights they may pretend to, there is an infal∣lible
Argument to prove them Children of this World, being so wise,
that is, cunning, in their Generations. No People carry on their
Projects with greater Intrigue, nor more nicely observe the several
steps and degrees by which they must be accomplished: Their Legal
Indulgence, as it was a great Point gain'd, so the timing of it was
very critical; for, being in the heat of the Revolution, there might
be several Casus omissi, which upon farther Debate would have
been better considered; particularly, I question very much, whe∣ther
any Dissenter would have been allow'd going to the Conven∣ticle
during his Magistracy, especially to carry the Insignia thither;
the former of which hath been all along practis'd in several Corpo∣rations
throughout the Kingdom; and, doubtless, the President
your Lord Mayor has set, will be Ap'd by several of his Brethren
in other Places: (notwithstanding, as the Act runs at present, 'tis
a Moot Case among the Gentlemen of the Long Robe, whether al∣lowable
thereby) But that your Lord Mayor may not have the
sole Honour of