The possibility of God's forsaking a people, that have been visibly near & dear to him together with the misery of a people thus forsaken, set forth in a sermon preached at Weathersfield, Nov. 21. 1678. Being a day of fast and humiliation. / By Mr. Joseph Rowlandson ...


THE Possibility of Gods For∣saking a people, That have been visibly near & dear to him TOGETHER, With the Misery of a People thus forsaken, Set forth in a SERMON, Preached at Weathersfield, Nov. 21. 1678. Being a Day of FAST and HU∣MILIATION.
By Mr. Joseph Rowlandson Pastor of the Church of Christ there. Being also his last SERMON.
2 Chron. 15.2.The Lord is with you, while ye be with him, and if ye seek him, he will be found of you: but if ye forsake him, he will forsake you.
Hos. 9.12.Wo also to them, when I depart from them.
BOSTON in NEW-ENGLAND Printed for John Ratcliffe, & John Griffin. 1682.
To the Courteous READER, (especially the Inhabitants of the Town of Weathersfield, and Lancaster, in New-England.Gods forsaking of such as he hath been near to, is a thing of such weight, and solemnity, and hath such bitter effects, that it is a meet Subject, (espe∣cially in a dark and mourning day) for Ministers to speak to, and for People to hear of: that the one may warn of the danger, and the other avoid the judgement. As Gods presence is the greatest glory to a People on this side Heaven, so his absence is the greatest misery on this side hell; this therefore must needs be a concerning point, to such as will concern themselves in their concernments. The ensuing Sermon will appear a solemn word, if duely conside∣red: the subject matter is very solemn and weighty, (Treating of Gods being with, or forsaking a peo∣ple) the time when it was delivered was a solemn time, (a day of FAST throughout the Colonies) the Reverend Author that Composed, and Preached it; was one solemn and serious above many others, and that which adds one great circumstance to its solem∣nity, is, in that it was the last word he spake to the
World, being but about two dayes before he left it. As it is solemn, so 'tis seasonable, and pertinent. It is a time wherein we have given God just cause to forsake us. a time wherein God is threatning to for∣sake us. A time wherein God hath in some mea∣sure forsaken us already, and what can be more sea∣sonable, then to shew the evils that befall a forsaken People, that we may yet be awakened, and return, that the Lord do not forsake us utterly.
As for the Reverend Author, there needs no∣thing to be said in his commendation, he was known amongst the Churches in the Wilderness, and known to be a workman that needed not to be ashamed. That his Name (which was sometimes precious amongst those that knew him) may not be forgot, and that being dead, he may yet speak to a land that have in some measure forsook their God, and are in danger of being forsaken, is the ground work of the pub∣lishing this small part of his labours. It is com∣mended especially to the perusal of the Inhabita