Why not Eight queries, made to the Parliament from the people of England, in 1649.


WHY NOT
Eight Queries, made to the PARLIAMENT,
From the People of ENGLAND, in 1649.WHether this Nation shall be a free People, according to Magna Charta,
(now regained with such a vast expence of Treasure, and effusion of blood)
and according to our trust reposed in you, and your solemn deep Ingage∣ments,
Vows, and Promises, made to us, to make us a free People? And
WHY NOT yet performed by you, according to your promise made
to us, since the Kings death?
II. Whether you intend to pass the National Act for Liberty or not,
and to take off all Capias for Arrests, That so we the people of England
may be secured from trouble in our personal Liberties, and thereby inabled freely to follow our
Callings and Endevors for Livelihood? And WHY NOT, seeing it is our just Birth-Right?
III. Whether this Nation shall still be inslaved in their Estates, personal Liberties, and
Lives, to the present corrupt, delatory, chargable practises of the Law, and to the cruel, impious
(unparalel'd) mercenary Instruments of the same (by whom thousands of this Nation have
been ruined and destroyed) even by Lawyers and Gaolers? And WHY SO, seeing they are
abominable and wicked?
IIII. Whether you intend to prefer the impious flourishing State of an inconsiderable
number of corrupt Judges, and mercenary Lawyers, and cruel murthering Goalers (Enemies to
Englands Liberties) before the •ust Liberties, Peace, and Welfare of this great Nation? And
WHY SO? seeing he that treadeth in their Pathes, shall never have Peace nor Rest, Isai.
59. 7, 8.
V. Whether Justice shall be freely administred to all (both rich and poor) the oppressed re∣lieved,
with full satisfaction and reparation for their wrongs sustained, and the imprisoned set
free, SO, as their persons may not be still subject to imprisonment every two or three dayes, or
as often as their malicious cruel Adversaries shall think meet so to do? And WHEN, after
eight yeers Expectation? contrary to Isai. 33 15, 16.
VI. Whether the Creditors, according to Magna Charta, shall be enabled to reap Due and
Real Satisfaction for their Debts, out of the real and personal Estates of all able Debtors, in the
two third parts thereof (Intailed Lands also not exempted) without any tedious jugling,
chargeable delatory tricks in the Law? And WHY NOT, rather then Lawyers and Gaolers,
to rob them, and the Debtors?
VII. Whether all persons by you intrusted with many Millions of the National Treasure,
(and by them perverted) shall be called to a just and strict accompt for the same, whereby the
Souldiery may be duly satisfied, and this whole Nation eased and acquitted from the unsupport∣able
Burdens of all the several great Taxes, and daily Plunders, wherein the Souldiery is made
to appear the Actors, (conceived to be done by the Speaker and Lawyers) meerly to render
the Souldiers the more odious and detestable to this whole Nation (a subtle contrivance, to im∣brue
the