An oration, delivered at Chesterfield, on the 4th of July, 1800, the anniversary of American independence: by Benjamin Parsons, attorney at law. ; Published at the request of the audience.


AN ORATION, DELIVERED AT CHESTERFIELD, ON THE 4th OF JULY, 1800, THE ANIVERSARY OF American Independence:
By BENJAMIN PARSONS, ATTORNEY AT LAW.
PUBLISHED AT THE REQUEST OF THE AUDIENCE.
PRINTED AT NORTHAMPTON, (MASSACHUSETTS) BY WILLIAM BUTLER. MDCCC.
ORATIONWE are assembled, my friends, not to celebrate the birth day of a monarch, a despot, a scourge to mankind; nor, with insanity, to rush into intoxication and madness, to the dis|grace of humanity; but for the laudable purpose, of commemorating, with rational joy and rejoicing, the birth-day of our Nation; to enjoy the luxury, of reflecting upon the great achievements of the sons of America, and the signal delivery, and boun|ty of Providence, granted by the establishment of our Independence: to meditate upon all, that hath been done for us, as a nation and a people, and, with a prophetic zeal, to anticipate the con|tinuance, and increase of our National glory, hon|or, and Independence, until all earthly glory shall cease.
ON such a momentous occasion, the mind seems to be lost and overwhelmed in the magnitude of the subject! A succession of remarkable events, glorious achievement: and Providential deliverances,

rush upon the mind! and we would fain, at once, take a view of all things, present, past, and to come; consider the rise and progress of all na|tions, that have been, that are, or shall be; and the natural and moral causes of their rise and fall, their glory or disgrace. But on this theme, the philosophic and devout mind might dwell, with de|light, through its whole existence: And at this time, nothing more than a few hints, on the rise, progress, and state of our own country can be ex|pected. And although nothing new, or original should be offered on a subject, so often the theme of the most learned and eloquent; yet a bare re|petition of the remarkable events and providenc|es, respecting our nation, may tend to inspire us with a love of virtue, our neighbour and our Coun|try: and a reverence for "the author of every good and perfect gift."
TWO centuries have not yet passed away, since this whole country, these now united, flourishing States, were an entire wilderness. Where now moves the lofty steed, and roll the carriage wheels, were, then, no more than wild beast's range, or Indian paths. Where now are erected stately domes and magnificent edifices, were then no more than haunts for beasts, or Indian wig-warms. Where, now are settled the sons and daughters of reason, virtue and science, were then no more than beasts of prey, or savages, more fe|rocious than those beasts. Where now are many worshipers of the true God, were then only be|ings, who paid a mock homage to the Sun, the Moon, the Stars, or other inferior supposed divin|ities.

Where, are now heard, with rapture, the improved band of bol