A letter from a gentleman, containing some remarks upon the several answers given unto Mr. Colman's, entituled, The distressed state of the town of Boston.


A LETTER From a Gentleman, Containing some Remarks upon the Several Answers given unto Mr. Colman's, Entituled, The Distressed State of the Town of Boston.
BOSTON: Printed by S. KNEELAND, for NICHOLAS BOONE, BENJAMIN GRAY, and JOHN EDWARDS, and Sold at their Shops. 1720.
SIR,I Have perused your Letter, Intituled, The Distressed State of the Town of Boston, and think the Ti|tle doth answer the Matters of Fact therein con|tained; which are too obvious to every Man to be deny'd, and therefore I believe all Men will be of Opinion that it was high time some body did begin, and shew the Poverty and Oppression which is breaking in like a Flood upon us. I have lately Travell'd into livers parts of the Country, and convers'd with many Principle Men there, and find them all to be very diffe|rent in Opinion from those who have pretended to give Answer to yours in the News-Letter, the 18th of April, and since in a Pamphlet dated 23d. of same Month, In|tituled, Some Remarks on yours, and indeed I think the Author did well to put in the Word, Some: for those Things which there was most need of clearing up, he hath not thought proper to touch upon, perhaps he saw he was not able to give any satisfactory Answer thereto, and so thought (as any wise Man would) that it would be most prudent to pass them over in silence, and indeed no Man of common understanding, who compares your Letter with the pretended Answers will say, that the Answers any way clear up the Difficulties you complain of. So that your Letter stands good, and will do so in the Opinion of every Judicious Reader, until a clearer and fuller Answer appear. I have also seen a piece of

sulled paper, Intituled, The Postcript, which I hastily ran over, but thought it not worth while to give it a second reading, being sensible that none but some very mean wretch could be so simple to think the Cause (of which he would be thought a Patron) could receive any benefit by the railing of such a Rabshica. However, I put it in my Pocket, thinking it might serve (as dirty as it was,) for a necessary occasion; but Sir, I can assure you, you'l suffer nothing by such Scurrility, for I find you are justifyed by Men of every Rank and Order, and it is the cry of (by far the greatest part) both of Town and Country, that your Letter was a word in season, and that you have done well in appearing in this critical Juncture.
I think it no Difficult matter to Answer the Answer's, but it will take up too much of my Time, and indeed what they have written, are mostly Evasions, Misre|presentations and Amusements, and perhaps some Mistakes, to which the Gentleman owns he is as liable as you are. He saith you have represented Things in a smart and moving manner, by which I perceive he thought that the Town felt the Truth of what you have written, and therefore would readily fal