The articles of agreement between the King of France, the Parliament, and Parisians. With a list of the names of those who signed thereunto, on the King's, Parliaments, and Citizens behalfe. / Faithfully translated out of the French originall copy, by G. Le Moyne.


THE ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT Between the King of France, the Par∣liament, and Parisians. WITH A LIST of the names of those who signed thereunto, on the King's, Parliaments, and Citizens behalfe. Faithfully Translated out of the French Originall Copy, by G. Le Moyne.
LONDON, Printed for H. S. 1649.
THE ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT Between the King of France, the Parlia∣ment and the Parisians.THe King of France being desirous and willing to make known both to his Parliament and to the Citizens and Inhabitants of this good City of Paris, how gracious and acceptable were the Representative submissions made and tendred by them to his Majesty, and likewise the Pro∣testations and Assurances of their future Obedience and fidelity, having judiciously and seriously considered upon the conditions and propositions of peace, by the advice of the Queen Regent his mother, hath willingly granted these Articles following.
1 That immediately upon the subscription and assigning of this present Accommodation, all sorts and manner of hostility are to cease, and by Land or water, all passages are to be free, and the ordinary and mutuall commerce being re-established, the said Court of Parliament, according and by virtue of his Majesties Order, shall repair forthwith unto the Royall Palace and Castle of St. Germain in Laye, (10 or 12 miles from the City of Paris) where the King sitting in his stately and royall Throne and Seat of Justice, the same Articles and Propositions of peace being read and proclaimed, the said Court of Parliament shall return to Paris, to exercise and to performe the ordinary Functions of their Charges and Offices.
2 That during this present year 1649 Stylo novo, there shall be Concourse or Meeting of all, and every Chamber of Parliament upon any cause, pretext, or occasion whatsoever; except onely for, and upon the reception, and admitting of Officers, and for the great, and Solemne Assemblies, (which the French calls Mercurialis) wherein no matter shall be handled, moved or agi∣tated, but onely concerning, and about the Creation, and Ma∣king of such Officers.
In the tenor, and contents of the said Proclamation (which is to be published) it shall be expressely specified, and set down: that the will, and pleasure of his Majesty is that the late Declara∣tions of May, July, and October in the yeare 1648 verified, and confirmed in Parliament, shall remaine, and continue in full force, and vertue (except onely the matter of Mutuations or borrowed Moneys) as it shall be more at large expounded hereafter.
Moreover it is agreed upon that all decrees, sentences, and judgements made, and pronounced by the said Court of Parlia∣ment of Paris, since the 6 of January last, untill this present, are to be di