A sermon preach'd at St. Marys Church in Cambridge, January the 6th being the feast of the Epiphany / by Francis Hare ...


A SERMON Preach'd at St. MARYS Church IN CAMBRIDGE, JANUARY the 6th. Being the FEAST OF THE EPIPHANY.
By FRANCIS HARE, A.M. and Fellow of KING'S College.
CAMBRIDGE, Printed at the University Press, for Edmund Jeffery, Bookseller in Cambridge, 1700.
Mr Hare's SERMON On the EPIPHANY.
Imprimatur.
THO. GREENE, Procan.HUMF. GOWER, Prof. Marg.S. BLITHE, Aul. Clar. Custos.C. RODERICK, Coll. Regal. Praep.LUKE II. xxxii.A Light to lighten the Gentiles—THE Hymn from whence these Words are taken, is so well known by being made a part of the constant Service of the Church, that I need not mention either the Author or Occasion of them; Every body knows When they were spoken and by Whom, sees Who it is they point to, and is before-hand with me in the application of them to the Day; Which the Church hath set apart to commemorate that great Mystery, the Manifestation of the Messiah to the Gentiles, a Mystery hid from Ages and Generations, but now made known in the Per∣sons of the Wise Men; who by the Lead∣ing of a Star came from the East to Jeru∣salem to pay their homage to the New-born King: For they were the First-fruits of the Gentiles; in Them was this Manifestation, not only signified and shadowed forth, but actually begun; so soon did the Messiah the Glory of Is∣rael begin to be a Light to the Gentiles also.
This is a Day much to be remembred in it self; and as 'tis the last of the Solemnity of this Season, so is it the great Reason we remembred those that went before it: For what if Christ were in the fulness of Time Born of a pure Vir∣gin, what if he were Circumcised the Eight day, and made obedient to the Law; what had these things been to us, or what Interest had we had in them, if He that was Born and Circumcised, had not been Manifested to us?
If we have any Sense of the Misery the Gentile World had hitherto, and would have still continued to lie under, if the Messiah had not been reveal'd at all; and the yet greater Evils they must have undergone, if he had been reveal'd in the manner the Jews expected; we shall see abundant Rea∣son to celebrate this Day, and joyfully acknow∣ledge the Goodness of God to us, in that Ma∣nifestation of His Son, which we now comme∣morate. And if a Sense of being deliver'd from our Misery, if a Sense of having the greatest Evils remov'd far from us, be sufficient to excite Joy and Praise, and Thanksgiving in us; much more will our Rejoycing be increas'd, much greater will our Obligations be, when we consi∣der the Favours and Blessings we do or may enjoy, if it be not our own Fault, in the room of those Evils, which we must have been other∣wise exposed to.
If the Messiah had not been revealed at all, the World would still have lain in Sin, in Blind∣ness and great Darkness, and had neither known God, nor been known by Him; they would have been still wandring after their own Imagina∣tions, and either n