{'user': 'Anonymous', 'message': "Moving on, let us see the interior of the spacecraft. All the inner rings will be of height 1km. This will be divided into 10 levels. Let us dive deeper into the average layout of each ring depending on the subsections which are divided based on their utility. For the residential subsection, we will have level 1 to 6 occupied with pods assuming each is of height 10 mtrs. level 8 and 9 will contain agricultural resources along with waste management and level 10 will be utilised for water supply. After 1km ring stretch, we will have recreational areas, gardens, gyms and community hall.This will be housed in parts of ring 1, 2 and 3. For the commercial subsections, level 1 to 4 will be utilised by businesses and their requirements. Level 5 to 8 will comprise of malls and shops while level 8, 9, 10 will be focusing on water supply and waste management. Located in ring 4, the industrial area here from level 1 to 7 will be working on industries and will be highly involve 3d printing to support manufacturing necessities. Level 8, 9, 10 will be used for water supply & waste management. Transporting good will be done by the robots. ZeroG mobility can be employed for this work. The spacecraft will be controlled and managed from control area which will house computer system, communication equipment & other control system. We will be having 2 regions for medical emergencies, fires or other crises at every subsection of every ring. Let us now see the automation which will be used for life support. We will be having nearly human-sized maintenance robots which will be checking for the technical faults in the spacecraft. It will rely on the video cameras & laser scanners to scan the region and find the faults using computer vision and machine learning. Faults include but are not limited to regular maintainence, networking wires defects, air leakages, energy generation & distribution mishaps, etc. We will be having transportation robots which can carry aupto 400kg of load. They will use navigation algorithms for faster transportation. Our life-support robot is a half human-sized robot providing residents with facilities ranging from cooking and cleaning to first-aid and medical help. These robots will be programmed with Artificial Intelligence. They will also check the air purity and water purity in the residential area. Let's move on to the Controlled environment agriculture Controlled Environment Agriculture (CEA) & Vertical Farming - It was proved that even without much need of soil and water we can grow plants in space with the help of Controlled Environment Agriculture and Vertical Farming. This would help reduce the net weight of soil and huge volumes of H2O on the spacecraft. An efficient scape management can be achieved by using Vertical Farming. By installing this technique we can grow crops almost throughout the space craft even in residential compartments as it not only serves to be the source of food but also helps bu