{'user': 'Anonymous', 'message': 'Give me all of the key points and key details for the following text:  Toward the end of Calling the Ghosts, a documentary film about the war in Bosnia, there is a scene in which the two central characters are looking through a rack of postcards. Jadranka Cigelj and Nusreta Sivac, Bosnian Muslim women who sur vived the Serbian concentration camp of Omarska, had come to the Netherlands to testify about their experiences before the International Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia. The voiceover is Cigelj, reading the card they sent to their former Serbian colleagues in their former hometown, the ethnically cleansed city of Prijedor: "Greetings from The Hague. Hope to see you here soon." Those two short sentences speak volumes about modern ethnic hatred, genocidal violence, and torture, as well as the survivor spirit and demands for justice. When the women were incarcerated and repeatedly raped by Serbian soldiers, the possibility of legal retribution was virtually unthinkable. The illegality of Omarska was obvious, as evidenced by the precautions taken by the commanders of the camp prior to a visit by foreign journalists to obscure the harms being perpetrated there. But they had little reason to imagine, let alone fear, that they could be held account able. At that time, there was no institutional mechanism to enforce the international laws being violated in Omarska. But the fact that there were laws "in the books" inspired the women, when they were released, to document their own and fellow prisoners\' suffering. Although the initial purpose of their documentation project was to facilitate recovery, it also constituted evidence of crime. In 1993, when the United Nations created an ad hoc tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, the testimony of survivors was instrumental in preparing indictments. The postcard scene in Calling the Ghosts portrays this transitional phase in inter national law enforcement and institution building. It also provides a vivid, ethno graphic image of "law in action." For Cigelj and Sivac, their transformation from "victims" to "witnesses" is an empowering rejoinder to the violence that unmade their world. 590 LISA HAJJ AR HUMAN RIGHTS IN THE FIELD OF LAW AND SOCIETY Studying the power of law to make and to change social relations is a cornerstone of law and society scholarship. It is a shared interest in law as a social phenomenon and force that brings scholars from across the disciplinary spectrum to this interdisciplin ary field. However, until the 1980s, little attention was devoted to international law or law in the international arena. Rather, the field was dominated by the study of law in a particular country or community, or comparative analysis of law in select countries. Research on globalization and international law has picked up over the last two decades. Commenting on this trend, Silbey writes: [S]tudying the social organization of law is a particularly good way to study the exerc