{'user': 'Anonymous', 'message': 'Give me PlantUML code to create a mark down mindmap (atleast 5 levels ,only telegraphic text in code strictly,No fully formed sentences please) depicting 20 POINTS on text in the style of in sahil bloom\'s tweets: "Rati" .... Rati had been suffering from an acute case of the shivers from the moment Indra had turned up in their home with dire tidings. Owing to her closeness with Kama, and the uncanny intuition that is so peculiar to the female of the species she had always been troubled by the presence of death that seemed to hover over him. Mostly Rati would tell herself that she was acting exactly like a mortal female whose hormones had gone berserk and laugh off the incessant fear but on bad days, she would fret about it endlessly, wondering if there was not something she could do to keep her husband safe and by her side always. These clammy apprehensions that were the only cloud in an otherwise perfect existence, Rati discussed with no onenot even Kama. She voiced aloud her darkest suspicions only once, and to her surprise, it was to Goddess Saraswati with whom she shared an uneasy relationship at best. Brahmas consort had wanted to see the wonders of their palace of crystal and white marble that had become the highest authority on love, desire and pleasure. Kama had been most welcoming and given her a personal tour. Initially, on seeing the legendary beauty of her husbands stepmother, Rati had felt the slightest twinge of hostilitywhich was why she tried to make up for it by being thoroughly charming and warm to her. Conducting a quick comparison in the many, many mirrors that she had had erected all over their house so that she may better feast on the beauty of Kama and herself, she quickly gauged that despite her ethereal beauty, the freshness of youth was lacking in her husbands stepmotherand Rati was ridiculously pleased. At that moment when self-doubt had been sufficiently dispelled, she decided that Saraswati was not bad at all and it made perfect sense that Kama got along so well with her. Sensing the thaw in the other womans animosity, Saraswati had become pleasantly chatty. She told Rati about how Vasanta had come into Kamas life and her own role in the story. Playfully, Rati had declared that she now knew who to blame for her biggest competitor over Kamas affections, adding that the God of Spring followed him everywhere, like death. The two women had stopped laughing then, for Ratis careless utterance carried with it the weight of her terror and left her too choked up to go on. Saraswati had taken the woman destined for widowhood in her arms then and told her about the maras. The Goddess told her Brahmas words about the purpose they were intended to serve in Kamas life and assured her that they would never harm him. She told her about the first time she had seen them scattered around the God of Desire and the chill that had penetrated her being at that moment. Saraswati told Rati that the maras coul