{'user': 'Anonymous', 'message': 'I have a company founded in colombia on march 2022. In the begining there were 3 co-founders and i payed in october 2022 an amount that was equivalent to 25% of the company. The company is named Celes. Celes is a SaaS B2B that connects to an ERP, analyzes the data and gives recommendations about what to purchases and when, besides, it provides helpful business intelligence reports and customer segmentation. Celes serves companies in the retail sector that benefit from this services as they can have lower stocks and a lower expectation of lost sales.  The company has been growing and currently we have 30.000 USD in MRR, an average 1000 USD revenue per client, 12 employees, we pay low salaries compared to the industry and we are not burning money (the incompe received is enough to pay for our current costs of servers, admin and payroll). We are raising money to accelerate our growth and to increase the value provided by our product by hiring more developers, Technical Account Managers and Data Engineers. We expecto to raise $800.000 USD via SAFE from angles and institutional investors with a pre-money cap of $6.0000.000 USD. All this money will be received by a new c-corp company established in Delaware, US. We contacted a company in ireland named Primeline that is a provider to 100% of the biggest retailers in ireland and have a very close relationship with them. They love our product and became a customer of their own. Primeline proposed to invest 300.000 USD via SAFE on the terms that we are raising and were previously exposed. FOr this investment they are asking for a seat in oour board. Apart from that, we are working in a deal where we create a Joint Venture established in ireland called Primalytics. The owners of this Joint Venture will be Primeline (50%) AND Celes Delaware (50%). The purpose of this Joint Venture is to be the official seller of Celes in ireland where Celes Delaware provides the product and everything involved and Primeline will contact its clients so that they purchase Celes services via this JV. The initial proposal was that the 2 companies would split the net revenue of this JV (Revenue after admin and fiscal costs are covered). I think that this deal is advantageous for primeline given that Celes will do all the work and Primeline has nothing to lose from this partnership but the average client in ireland would be at least 4.000 USD, which would provide a nice additional source of revenue for us even when we have to give 50% of the revenue for those deals and also would make the company more valueable given that the product would be proven to work in europe with big brands. Now primeline is proposing this: "Primeline commits to Investment USD 300k into the Celes Delaware investment company directly. This investment to be returned to the Primalytics JV in Ireland to fund a sales and marketing team focused on growing ARR from EMEA. This represents 5% share in the business and would come wi