{'user': 'Anonymous', 'message': "5 / 5I must compare the UX programs at the University of Michigan - Ann Arbor, the University of Maryland - College Park, and the Pratt Institute. I'd like you to elaborate a list of categories or factors to consider, provide a point weight for each category based on the importance of each factor to choose the best UX program. You have to take into account that I am a Fulbright scholar international student, that I am interested in landing an internship during the summer between year 1 and year 2 and doing academic training after year 2, that I have 70K of the total tuition for 2 years covered by a grant, and that I'll be getting a stipend between 1.5 and 2.9K each month towards living expenses. The more the cost of living in the place where the college is located, the higher the stipend I'll get, but it might happen that the living costs will exceed the stipend amount anyways. Don't forget to also consider all costs, weather, the opportunities to engage with American culture, the chances to meet locals during my master's degree, and the reputation each program has in US and Spain, as I will be returning to Spain after my academic training. Now list each program and score them in these categories"}
{'user': 'Chat GPT', 'message': "Sure, I can provide you with a list of categories or factors to consider when comparing UX programs at the University of Michigan - Ann Arbor, the University of Maryland - College Park, and the Pratt Institute. Based on the information you provided, here are some categories and their corresponding point weight based on their importance to you: Program Reputation (20 points) This includes the reputation of the university as a whole, as well as the reputation of the UX program specifically. This is important as it can affect job prospects after graduation, and can also affect your ability to secure internships during your studies. Curriculum (15 points) This includes the courses offered, the focus of the program (e.g., research vs. industry-oriented), the flexibility of the program (e.g., ability to take electives), and the opportunities for hands-on experience. Faculty (10 points) This includes the experience and expertise of the faculty, as well as their availability and willingness to mentor students. Internship Opportunities (15 points) This includes the availability of internships, the quality of internships, and the support provided by the program in securing internships. Academic Training Opportunities (15 points) This includes the availability of academic training opportunities, the quality of those opportunities, and the support provided by the program in securing them. Cost of Living (10 points) This includes the cost of housing, food, transportation, and other living expenses in the location of the university. This is important as it can affect the amount of stipend you receive and your overall financial well-being during your studies. American Culture Engagement Opportunities