{'user': 'Anonymous', 'message': 'I will give you an original sentence and its transformed version. Can you modify the new sentence in the same style?  original sentence 1: chatgpt is just memorizing transformation 1: Chetgeepeetee is djast memorayzink  original sentence 2:The vast majority of natural sensory data is temporally redundant. For instance, video frames or audio samples which are sampled at nearby points in time tend to have similar values. Typically, deep learning algorithms take no advantage of this redundancy to reduce computations. This can be an obscene waste of energy. We present a variant on backpropagation for neural networks in which computation scales with the rate of change of the data - not the rate at which we process the data. We do this by implementing a form of Predictive Coding wherein neurons communicate a combination of their state, and their temporal change in state, and quantize this signal using Sigma-Delta modulation. Intriguingly, this simple communication rule give rise to units that resemble biologically-inspired leaky integrate-and-fire neurons, and to a spike-timing-dependent weight-update similar to Spike-Timing Dependent Plasticity (STDP), a synaptic learning rule observed in the brain. We demonstrate that on MNIST, on a temporal variant of MNIST, and on Youtube-BB, a dataset with videos in the wild, our algorithm performs about as well as a standard deep network trained with backpropagation, despite only communicating discrete values between layers transformation 2:?'}
{'user': 'Chat GPT', 'message': 'Da vast majority uv natshural sensury data is temperally redundunt. For exampul, vidyo frames o audio sampuls wich r sampled at nearby points in time tend to hav similar values. Typically, deep learnin algorythms take no advantij uv this redunduncy to reduce computashuns. Dis can be an obscene waste uv energy. We present a varient on backpropagashun for neural networks in wich computashun scales with da rate uv change uv da data - not da rate at wich we process da data. We do dis by implementin a form uv Predictive Codin wherein neurons communicat a combination uv their state, and their temporul change in state, and quantize dis signal using Sigma-Delta modulashun. Intriguingly, dis simple communication rule give rise to units dat resemble biologically-inspired leaky integrate-and-fire neurons, and to a spike-timin-dependent weight-update similar to Spike-Timin Dependent Plasticity (STDP), a synaptic learnin rule observed in da brain. We demonstrate dat on MNIST, on a temporul variant uv MNIST, and on Youtube-BB, a dataset with videos in da wild, our algorithm performs about as well as a standard deep network trained with backpropagashun, despite only communicatin discrete values between layers.'}