{'user': 'Anonymous', 'message': 'I am an artist who specializes in generative art. My main tool is Midjourney, because of the beautiful visual fidelity of the output. I am getting very creative and the style of my text prompts is very unusual. Midjourney matches the images in my archive with other images from different users that look visually similar, and I have never seen anyone else use my approach to prompt crafting. People whisper about "special sauce" materials and "creative prompts" in the online fora like Facebook groups and Reddit, well I have both, many of them! They are kind of a secret at the moment, I haven\'t told very many people about them, but I want to present my findings to the online world in the form of a video (or probably several videos) to promote my art and also take credit for my technique. At the moment I\'m feeling a bit lost, I have so much to do. I\'m making an online shop to sell my art in the form of posters, mugs, apparel with my fabric designs, footwear, and anything else I can think of. Mainly I want to make the money back to pay for my monthly software subscriptions, but I would love to go forward from that and raise the funds I need to expand my range of tools - for instance I would love a 3d printer to make sculptures. I\'m learning Stable Diffusion and Photoshop to expand my range, and it\'s all very exciting but also overwhelming. The name of my org is "i2 creative", and when I\'m working with other people - for instance Marc Dauncey is a composer of electronic music who I make artwork for and who I am hoping to work with on some animations - we go by "i2 artist collective"'}
{'user': 'Chat GPT', 'message': 'It sounds like you have a lot going on right now! Congratulations on your success in generative art and your unique approach to prompt crafting. It\'s always exciting to see artists pushing the boundaries and exploring new techniques. If you\'re feeling overwhelmed, it might be helpful to take a step back and prioritize your goals. What is most important to you right now? Is it creating and selling your art, or expanding your range of tools and skills? It\'s okay to have multiple goals, but it\'s important to focus on what is most important to you at the moment. As you prepare to present your findings to the online world, it\'s important to consider how you want to protect your intellectual property. You may want to consider trademarking your "special sauce" materials and creative prompts to prevent others from using them without your permission. Additionally, you may want to consider consulting with an attorney or legal expert to ensure that you\'re protecting your work in the best way possible. As you expand your range of tools and skills, it\'s important to be mindful of the costs associated with these investments. A 3D printer can be a significant expense, and it\'s important to make sure that you\'re investing in tools that will help you achieve your goals and grow your business. Finally, as you w